---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting

## Madicken

 * Went to the spatial data science conference
     * Gave lightning talk about yt for geospatial data
     * Lots of cool work being done there
     * Mostly city data, not much physical sciences
     * Afterward had some folks come up and chat - but, further down the road.  One person had oceanography data specifically for coastlines.
     * Audobon society data for bird flight tracking.
 * Been working to finish up PR with geographic transforms.  ([PR 1966](https://github.com/yt-project/yt/pull/1966 ))
 * Filed a bug report in matplotlib.
     * Issue was that there was a `**kwargs` that did `.pop(..., default)` where `default` is not just as simple as None
     * `ax.transData` is the default
 * Hoping to have cartopy PR ready for review today -- fixing up tests from refactor.

## Nathan

 * Big news item: released yt 3.5!
     * Suspiciously quiet
 * Been working on from master into yt-4.0, which will unbreak some tests on yt-4.0.

## Kacper

 * Last week at Whole Tale, performed user experience testing.
     * Gave users lots of task to do without a lot of explanation.
     * Sessions were recorded!
     * Received a formal report.
     * Really positive experience.
     * Now trying to incorporate that back in.
     * New round of mockups.
     * Working on design and concepts of key features like workspaces, forking of a tale.
     * Enabling some new providers -- dataverse!  They'll add a button.  Click it, run it in the whole tale.
     * Workspaces, forking, etc are live on dev.
 * Applied for Jetstream -- proper allocation.  XRAC.  Almost 1 million CPU hours.

## Colleen

 * Has a working computer!  Doesn't freeze with capslock!  Doesn't play music when it goes to sleep!  All the ports work.
 * Crops in silico -- been working on setting up all kinds of tests for stuff that's been implemented.  Turned more into a library than a CLI app, which is good!
 * Worked this morning on setting up to compile the tests when you tell it to.
 * Gave a webinar to XSEDE on "intro to sciviz."  100% of them said they'd come back to another one!  100% said they can definitely use it.

## Sunny

 * Been comparing grackle+gamer and dengo+gamer.
 * Initial condition is NFW in equilibrium.  Can trap the gas.
 * (google drive jupyterlab plugin; python 2 not 3)
 * Divergent from grackle to dengo -- lower densities in dengo than in grackle.  Charged species are the biggest difference.
 * Grackle sets a lower limit on the species. Wouldn't change energy/entropy that much.
 * Been experimenting with tensorflow and turbulent power spectra.


## Wei-Ting

 * Performance tests on the Poisson solver for blue waters proposal
 * Method paper is almost there.  One or two paragraph.

## Meagan

 * Been finishing up crops in silico paper.  Submission form is complete ... but there's an issue with the three recommended reviewers!
 * Evidently, current and future work inclusion is not recommended.

## Nathanael

 * Been busy with school, but lately working with [handsontables](https://handsontable.com/)
 
## Matt