---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - July 18, 2018

## General Discussion

 * ...


## Jarrett

* Gave lightning talk on Monday about progress on the molecular cloud tracking project
* Finished creating the database for all 600 time steps of the 20pc feedback simulation data (took ~3.5 days)
    * Read a lot of papers in the meantime
* Working on parallelizing the clump prediction function, currently testing locally
* Next week is the last week for the SPIN summer program so I will be working on a final report and poster
    * Will be continuing with the project during the school year!

## Nathan

 * Scipy went really well.  Got a lot of people aware of the postdoc position at NCSA. Lots of interest in yt.  Discussions in particular with geophysics and geophysics-adjacent areas.  UK MET office (UK version of NOAA) has big investment in python. Phil Elson, IRIS, CF standard.  Interest in `unyt`.
 * CF-compliant metadata for units in `unyt` is a possibility.
 * GSoC got SPH gather smoothing working!
 * Giving up on idea about project-once, reproject-lots way.  Settling on an `O(N)` operation for projections.

## Meagan

 * Also at SciPy, went really well.  Lots of interest in `cis_interface`.  Lots of different fields -- finance, chemical plants, biomedical, bioinformatics, etc.
 * Summer camps, preparing materials, jupyterhub, workshop for cis, etc.
 * Want to get conda working for `cis_interface`.

## Wei-Ting

 * Merged self-gravity into GAMER!  Hooray.  Optimizing it now.  Test problem to check $|L|$ conservation.  Works at Mach ~ 100, but lower results in pressure issues.
 * Initial condition for disk profile.
 * Went to ASTRONUM. Looked at some comparisons possible for accuracy checks in self-gravity.

## Matt

 * Went to scipy.
 * Looking at IO.

## Cassidy

 * Ran some blastwave test problems, etc, but comparison diagnostic plots were not matching up properly.
 * Now it's not running (fluid solver failures) but it is seemingly correctly scaling.

## Nayan

 * Working on Minkowski functional stuff.  First functional is complete; working on second.  Third one is coming along.
 * Concerned about too much approximation.  How will that impact Euler characteristic?
 * Looking at getting third one done before Matt leaves.

## Kacper

 * Last week attended SciPy, gave a talk.
 * Has a call with somebody as a result of the talk being watched on YouTube.
 * MVP for Whole Tale: 5 or 6 bugs is all.  Release aimed for Friday.

## Xinyang

 * Finished the halo projection images!
 * Did some machine learning on the halo vectors!  Did not find anything interesting.
 * Read the paper about flood-filling and watched about AutoML.

## Madicken

n/p

## Cyrus

n/p

## Sunny

 * In Moscow in past two weeks at summer school about astro.  Plasma to neutron stars.  MHD.  Non-ideal plasma.
 * Run some valgrind on dengo.  Jacobian seems to take a super long time.  Can we improve things?  Callgrind suggests maybe not.  Up to 75% of time is spent in the solver itself.

## Brandon

 * Last week, code for creating Off-Axis Projections for SPH was merged into yt-4.0.  Used rotation matrices.  Now using kd-tree ray tracing, and will move that in.
 * Leave project in a good state.

## Colleen

 * Released image processing stuff last week.
 * Also spent time with Crops in Silico on ray tracing.  Can render out image of spheres, working on triangles.

## Nathanael

n/p