---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - September 26, 2018

## General Discussion

 * ...

## Cassidy

 * "Aside from the whole, like, drowning in life stuff ..."
 * THW data science presentation!  Decided to do something with stellar evolution and the HR diagram.  Found a dataset with a selection bias.

## Nathanael

n/p

## Cyrus

n/p

## Madicken

n/p

## Kacper

 * Last week, mostly working on whole tale, two specific things.
     * Creating easily deployable working environment to run the whole system on your latop.  Mostly done.
     * Integrating something called "data management system" for how data gets pushed into containers

## Jarrett

n/p

## Meagan

 * Paper writing going slower than expected.  Balancing writing a "code paper" and going beyond "writing documentation."
 * Doing some work with type system and formalization of that type system.  How do you specify a precision for unicode in bytes.

## Nayan

n/p

## Sam

 * Looking at possible yt collaborators and see if we can load in data
 * Classes too.
 * Bought a car!

## Nathan

n/p

## Wei-Ting

 * Tried to finish some work, but last minute issues with the paper came up.  Submitting to DES.
 * For PopIII, looking at initial conditions.  Trying to see if we can say something about the survival conditions of a clump based on the disk conditions.  Pressure support, aerodynamic drag, dynamical friction, etc.

## Xinyang

 * Over past week, been working on using cosmoflow.
 * Article states that cosmoflow has good performance and accuracy, so going to look at this.  Haven't been able to use it on RSL.

## Matt

 * Mostly reports and paper writing

## Brandon

n/p

## Colleen

 * Computerless for the time being
 * Got things working with PLY files for Cis ray tracer
 * Haven't updated for color, etc
 * Discovered error in the logic -- why only getting a black screen?  Read in colors, but didn't assign them to anything.

## Sunny

 * Implemented the OpenMP version for dengo. Made a library for that.
 * Merging GAMER with Dengo right now.

## Brooke

 * This past week, got the gradient descent algorithm written down and applied to the chemical network
 * Applied it to the network on paper, now going to write it on code