---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - May 14, 2019


## General Discussion

 * Introducing Pat!
 * Group retreat tentatively May 31
 * Open Science
 * Publications
 * https://dxl.ncsa.illinois.edu/docs/index.html
 
## Ducks

Cassidy and Alex saved a bunch of ducklings!

## Matt

 * skip

## Sunny

 * Prelim!
 * Need an extra person
 * Putting DL into a jupyter notebook

## Meagan

n/p

## Kacper

 * Last week was lots of bug fixes for v0.7 WT
 * Apparently the publication destination was set incorrectly
 * Restarted the UX/UI group with ND
 * Chicago all day Weds for HPC+GCE

## Madicken

 * Working on updating example notebook for `widgyts`
 * Setting data path for yt, among other things
 * Updating the example since it shows the SlicePlot monkeypatching
 * `display_yt` returns an `HBox` so it's harder to link the traitlets
 * maintainer for the git novice lesson, which is doing a lesson release in June
 * Working on yt tests and merging master+4x
 * Kacper chimes in that loading a remote dataset might work fine (using `thingking`)

## Jared

 * After the yt meeting, went through and reformatted whole codebase.  Now inline with PEP-8.
 * Went through and vectorized everything could think of and find.
 * Now quite a bit faster!
 * Started porting over to Cython.
 * Blockchain and ethereum rabbit hole

## Wei-Ting

n/p

## Xinyang

 * Over the past week, found mistakes in previous code using Trident.
 * Found the mistakes, but now have to regenerate all the images.  The pipeline is almost ready.
 * Only need to fix that part with Trident.

## Alex

 * Finished finals!
 * Sonification stuff is getting presented this week in Paris
 * Been thinking about and working on sonification
 * Had been running toy problems with pygrackle

## Jill

n/p

## Sam

 * CSVConf!
 * Took lots of notes and can share with the group
 * Reproducibility
 * Notebooks talk
 * Connected with lots of neuroimaging and neuroscience stuff, which motivated her to get the frontend up and running
 * Lining up functional/structural and activity
 * Somebody is doing it with ipyvolume (mne, maybe?)

## Cassidy

 * Finished out the semester
 * Had to grade! So many things to grades!
 * Driving factor for turbulence is in
 
## Pat

 * Developing a pipeline -- estra
 * DBScan!  Find clusters!  Etc.
 * Once you find the clusters, use that info to generate shading or color-ramps in Houdini.
 * Highlight the specific structures you want.
 * "How do you make a visualization super simple, but very effective?"
 * How do the ML pipeline techniques compare to the finished product?

