---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - April 25, 2018

## Meagan

* Still working on Crops in Silico.  Got ray tracer from Colleen integrated with the models.
* Built a model driver using CMake.
* Using [perf](https://pypi.org/project/perf/) for timing tests.  No longer dumping to pickle, but instead using JSON!
* Mini-sprint on the bitmap stuff?

## Colleen

* Crops in silico stuff.
    * Looking at how to visualize the outputs
    * Pulled vertices out of Venkat's code, sent them to M&Y, but they don't look like leaves or canopies.  Still triangles.

## Xinyang

* Not a ton of progress, but working on getting analysis
* Got the python code from Kacper
* Looking at videos about TensorFlow on BW
* BW tensorflow videos use vocabulary that is pretty specific to the field

## Matt

* WASM stuff
* Grumpy

## Sunny

* HackCulture WINNER
* https://globecu.wordpress.com/take-the-tour/
* Journal club talk about Galaxy lacking dark matter
* Using Valgrind to profile the code.
* Deciphering the results.
* OpenMP version: kind of figured out the problem.  Running out of stack size.  `alloca` seems maybe tricky.
* Have to start forming an advising committee.  Nathan says this is probably a good thing.  Sunny seems hesitant.

## Nathan

* Last week was working on this (indicates poster package).  Poster is awesome and made of fabric. It's [online](https://figshare.com/articles/2018_yt_SI2_Poster/6169004)
* This week working on `unyt` mostly. 
* Running performance benchmarks.  Writing docs.  Going to write a 2-3 page JOSS paper.

## Wei-Ting

* Testing self-gravity in spherical coordinates.  Not converging that well.  Not sure yet why.
* Playing with `yt` now.  Not sure if using old version of gamer.  When plotting, only shows in rectangular.

## Madicken

* After group meeting, talked with Nathan about [WIP PR](https://github.com/yt-project/yt/pull/1760)
* Some documentation still for that, including adding a new frontend.
* Some naming collisions in the on-disk fields that need to be addressed.

## Kacper

 * Played with TensorFlow. Found [TensorFlow by Intel](https://software.intel.com/en-us/articles/intel-optimized-tensorflow-installation-guide) and installed it on dxl1.
 * Worked on WT frontends -- mostly RStudio and Jupyter notebook.  No more login page for RStudio.  No need to type the password etc now.  For Jupyter, enabled support for iframes for the new UI.
 * Performed a live resize of the production deployment and it just Worked.  (At TACC, not Nebula.)  Able to scale VMs on the fly.
 * Reviewed a few PRs, including backup implementation.  Daily backup of everything including home directories.  This goes to U of I box.  Uses [rclone](https://rclone.org/)
 * Trying to learn "how to deal with packages for javascript."
 
## Vasu

* Implemented colormap
* Pushed it to the yt-canvas-widget repository

