---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - April 4, 2018

## Justin

 * Revising implementation of the boundary conditions in GAMER
     * Challenge: mix periodic and non-periodic BCs
     * Not as complicated as he thought (happy ending to THAT mystery!)
     * Thinks it can be done in about a week
     * Just particles left
 * Ref report: reviewer asked to put some tests about poisson solver in there
     * Have to sacrifice some accuracy
     * In Enzo paper just did two-particle test
     * 

## Nathanael

 * Talk got accepted to scipy!  (Rust/WASM/Jupyter/etc)
 * `bqplot` maybe?  Looking at some things we are (like doing the colormapping on the frontend)
 
## Matt

 * New student accepted
 * Idyll was successful-ish
 * Inspector stuff
 * Testing of these widgets?

## Meagan

 * Nebula is still down.  And the ticketing system here is irritating.  Kacper got the image and extracted the `lost+found` and has the files.
 * Has been working on scaling for Crops in Silico and has a plot!
     * Seems like the import in python is the limiting step for some things
     * Messages above a given size need to be broken in 0MQ

## Brooke

 * Found a bug in brush selector at high-z
 * Turning widget into a class

## Kacper

 * Last week, finally released Whole Tale 0.1
 * Helping someone to publish a "Tale" in conjunction with a paper being published (material science)
 * Had some mockups for the new UI for WT
 * Talk accepted for SciPy

## Nathan

 * Has created `unyt` for units in python by splitting out from the yt units subpackage
 * Used cookiecutter, set up github, etc.
 * `pyup` and `tox` are cool
     * `tox` sets up test environments
     * tests in those virtualenvs, etc
 * Got the docs looking nice too

## Wei-Ting

 * Poking GAMER -> ctrl-c, ctrl-v
 * Test problem with Rayleigh criterion.  Possible to do convergence test in cylindrical coordinate?
 * Can one mode be isolated?

## Colleen

 * Crops in silico: going through, making sure calculations are correct.  Tedious.
 * Officially accepted 20 BW interns!  One mentioned `yt` in project proposal.
 
## Madicken

 * Went to Center for Open Science workshop.  Not a lot of computational people, but one neuro simulator.
 * Putting all the stuff together in one place can be tricky, and OSF seems to do that.
 * Had a version of the frontend working for denovo data in `yt`.  Import bugs, etc.
 * Officially became a maintainer for the git lesson on SWC

## Kwok-Sun

 * Has been working on dengo.  Trying to mimic interface of grackle.  Dengo module that takes data structures similar to grackle and evolves it.  Then, spits out the data structure again.
 * "Should not be too hard" -- Kwok-Sun

## Xinyang

 * Currently working on machine learning on the RenSim data.
 * Almost has the pipeline finished!
