---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - May 23, 2018

## General Discussion

 * We have two job openings!  Tell your friends!
     * http://www.ncsa.illinois.edu/about/jobs/pd_del
     * http://www.ncsa.illinois.edu/about/jobs/pra_yt
 * AWS Lab coming up.  Consider registering if you want to do AWS work.
 * Make arrangements for scipy soon!
 
## Madicken

 * Got colormap choices integrated into the widget.  Can change colormap, updates automatically.  Moving on to listeners for updating -- scaling, min/max, etc.
 * Leaving at noon for DISC subcommittee
   * Looking for volunteers!  (Assessment subcommittee)
   * (DISC == diversity and inclusion in scientific computing)

## Matt

 * Saw a presentation on volume rendering with yt; need to prioritize that this summer.  Chuck is going to be working on it.
 * WASM build chain has gotten a bit better over the last week.  Preparing to release an npm module for the pixelizer.
 * Thinking about writing up the format for sparse images.
 * Publication pep talk
 * Boppart data

## Colleen

 * AJ, Meagan and Colleen met with LPy folks on Skype.  Figure out best way to collaborate -- contribute ot LPy, etc.
   * Very interested in hearing more about how LPy might get used in Cis
   * Interested in message passing, GUI, etc
   * Very into the idea of HPC + Dist Comp
 * Teaching BW Institute this week and next for incoming interns.  These are undergrads.  They go home and work with mentors at local institutions.  (14 12-hour days.)

## Wei-Ting

 * Working on MPI version of self-gravity.  First version has memory limitation.
 * Working on the generalized version.
 * Cylindrical coordinates are getting merged back into current GAMER.  Conserved interpolation was super ugly when it was written, so might need a bit of a rewrite.
 * Went to Enzo workshop.  Was fun.

## Xinyang

 * Been working on tensorflow over the past week.  Problem seems to be that the prediction isn't very good yet.  Didn't make too much progress.
 * Some help with the code?

## Nayan

 * (Rising Junior in the physics department.)
 * Working on some morphology of photon bubbles during era of reionization, calculations of minkowski functionals, marching cubes, etc.  How does the Euler characteristic evolve over time?
 * "When does Reionization end?!"
 * Hasn't done much algorithms -- if anybody has some fun papers, would appreciate it!

## Roshini

n/p

## Kacper

 * Whole Tale
   * Interns for Whole Tale
   * Some openrefine work
   * Three projects should end with a publishable tale on our system
   * Wildcard DNS now running!  Last obstacle for new UI.  Auto-creation of the DNS entries now.
   * Deployment of most recent version still underway.  Blocker is migrating files that are currently in homedirectory backed by mongodb to things backed by webdav.
 * Working on bringing up yt hub back up to speed by porting changes from RSL/WT back to yt hub.
   * Related to some GAIA-related data
   * Galaxy catalogs from FIRE groups

## Nathan

 * Last week was Enzo workshop.  
   * Got a lot done on active particles.  Mostly just documentation.  
   * Couple issues with latest version of HDF5 with Enzo in general.
   * Converting Enzo to git
   * Gave a yt tutorial at the workshop; people liked it.  Tricky bit here is not making yt docs toooooo Enzo-specific.  Nathan likes it more than the existing yt quickstart.
 * Working on getting unyt completely done.
   * Performance regression fixed
   * Two open pull requests for JZH to look over.  Then, tagging, conda-ing, submitting paper to JOSS.
 * Next week working on some new things!
 * Going to create the yt-4.0 branch in the main yt repo.

## Brooke

n/p

## Nathanael

n/p


## Meagan

 * Crops in Silico
   * LPy call.  Found a couple places where she'd done work getting the external geometry into PlantGL form.
   * Going to add support for PLY/OBJ into PlantGL in a pull request
   * Lot of work leading up to the funding meeting that wasn't in main repository, but now working on getting that cleaned up and into the main repository.
   * Can do output of OBJ and PLY structures from C
   * Thinking a lot about multiple file sources, etc, and maybe hiding that communication under the hood.  Have the variable and field you want supplied -- not get-and-throw-away, but only-get-what-you-want.
 * Summer camp

## Sunny

 * Enzo workshop last week.  "Was fun."
   * Couple of interesting talks on the last day.
   * Somebody implemented a 65-species code on top of Grackle.  Working on PopII star formation in situ.
 * Worked on incorporating Grackle and GAMER
   * Have a simulation running!
   * Spherically-symmetric collapse
   * Justin has metal fields included in the test problem.
   * Next step is Dengo

## Vasu

n/p

## Justin

 * Extending the boundary conditions in GAMER.  That work is now done.  Next up is integrating non-Cartesian coordinate work to test further.
 * Working with JZH to run high-res cluster merger simulations -- eight times higher resolution than previous work.
 * Another problem he ran into is the load balancing when constructing initial conditions.  At very large scales, this can be a serious problem because of large memory consumption.
 * Routine now optimizes load balancing during construction of each level.
 * Finally has time to work on the MHD!  Starting to integrate MHD branch into main GAMER.  Probably take several weeks or months.