---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - March 27, 2018

## Madicken

Developing frontend for "denovo" data, including meshes for x,y,z and group.  Having some success with this.  NJG suggests looking at MOAB.

Angle transport situation adds a fifth dimension.

For each energy:

 * x, y, z data
 * also angle

NJG also suggests having a vector field, where the N is the number of angle packets. This would require setting up some kind of an averaging system.

## Nathanael

Exploring tabular widgets for showing fields and parameters.

Testing out using the inspector from ipywidgets.

## Colleen

Got the crops in silico ray tracer to compile!  Hooray!  :+1: 

Going through verifications for the ray tracer.

## Meagan

Added units support to Crops in Silico interface (cis_interface).  Was doing all of that on nebula, and while committing, did not push them.  Now Nebula is broken and the filesystem is not working.  "Does not know what filesystem."

Been working on documentation.  Got a lot done!

Discussion of units systems and maybe splitting yt units, but for now using pint.

## Brooke

Got the widgets working!  Hooray!  Going to bring these into the RSL soon.

## Kacper

Working on a release of Whole Tale v0.1.  The first "real" release (but secretly a training release).  Formalizing what is already running in production.

Docker registry will be v0.2.

Made some tweaks to RSL.  Saw that about ten people used it during Matt's class.

## Matt

Made some widgets.

## Nathan

Got two SPIN students, two proposals from GSoC. Unlike last year, there are some really good proposals this year.

Two proposals:

 * Improve test suite (make it faster and less reliant on answer testing)
 * Making easier to deposit SPH data onto grids in the demeshening branch

SPIN:

 * Research project on galaxy data
 * SPH volume renderer

Also worked on the `max_level` and `min_level` issues in yt.

## Sunny

Worked on Dengo.  Almost everything is included for primordial cooling.  Going to work on interfacing with GAMER.

Dengo is still slower than grackle.  But, seeing some noticable differences in three-body formation.

## Justin

Finished job hunting interviews!  Got some offers.

First thing to work on is working with Wei-Ting on supporting non-cartesian coordinates in GAMER.  Going to reimplement boundary conditions in GAMER.

Going to merge the magnetic fields into the core of GAMER.  Struggling to find some time to work on it. Wants to work on including `libyt` for inline analysis.

## Wei-Ting

Going to port cylindrical code back to GAMER.  Working on the implementations for FFTW and self-gravity.  Before self-gravity, likely going to add at least one test-problem to check conservation of angular momentum.

Has a possible exciting thing about black holes.

## Vasu

Working on some widgets work, especially with canvas updates.