---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - August 22, 2018

## General Discussion

 * ...

## Colleen

 * Ruled out lots of things with the ray tracer's correctness issues.
 * Have checked hits against other ray tracers.

## Cassidy

* Learning how to be a TA! 

## Nayan

n/p

## Meagan

* Vacation!
* Working with Nathan and Ash on a segfault in the bitmap stuff
* Getting back into crops in silico and replying to emails.
* Doing an outreach event at the library on Saturday
* Editorial advisory board for "In Silico Plants" journal.

## Nathanael

* Been working on enforcement of strong typing attributes in yt's plots using traitlets.
* Testing with LinePlot and PlotContainer.

## Sam

* Working on a document to gather info about domain contexts for yt
* Stuff like new units etc.

## Nathan

* Unyt paper got published!
* `cf_radial` frontend working
* Finishing up GSoC projects
* Report from Ash about bitmap index code while doing SWIFT testing
    * Writing outside pointer array
    * Ash refactored the low-level code to use memoryviews, Nathan then turned on boundschecking and found where it happens
    * Trying to generate a bitmap index that's 32^3 (`index_order` of 5) and that segfaulted

## Sunny

n/p

## Matt

* Met with Bill
* Crops in Silico
* Weather data - extruded mesh

## Xinyang

n/p

## Jarrett

* Ironed out all/most of the bugs with clump prediction algorithm and script
* Run a script to put it into the database
* Going to visualize and analyze the data -- cloud merger trees.  How do they appear, end, etc?
* Looking at SFR using KS equation and compare to data

## Brandon

n/p

## Cyrus

n/p

## Madicken

* Been working partly on a paper (NE)
* Working on weather data hackathon with everyone, but was working on projecting Earth-scale data
* Finished implementation, but working to complete the PR with tests and docs
* Hoping to take off `WIP` today!
* Doing in parallel with Zach, so not sure about documentation for everything yet.

## Wei-Ting

* Bus error that only happens when using >1000 nodes!
* GAMER initial conditions need to be rewritten a bit
* Has a PopIII accreting MESA model from the workshop

## Kacper

n/p