---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting Notes, 18 April 2018

## Matt

 * Proposal for Grackle in
 * Teaching almost over
 * Been fiddling with rust + webasm

## Madicken

 * Submitted a WIP PR on denovo frontend: https://github.com/yt-project/yt/pull/1760
     * It said the Python 3 failed -- not sure why!
     * Nathan can help with that.  Turns out plot answer tests are randomly failing.
     * Probably not M's fault
 * Going to be working on Rust stuff again.  Pixelizer.
 * Working to get more data from ORNL
 * No derived fields yet
 * They have vector fields built in (Denovo developers do)
 * How to visualize angular flux is an open quest.

## Wei-Ting

 * Testing the self-gravity in GAMER in non-cartesian coordinates.
 * Convergence test.

## Meagan

 * Pretty productive week!
 * Two of the Cis models integrated.
 * Created a fakeplant model to build a demonstration user interface case.
 * Looking at Colleen's code.  Some segfaults.
 * Might be related to the photosynthesis work that we aren't using.
 * Updated docs for `cis_interface` and added pandas dataframe imports.
 * Finished framework for units stuff
 * Pushed a new version of `cis_interface` to pypi that includes the zeromq

## Nathan

 * Last week in Berkeley for [URSSI](http://urssi.us/).  Conceptualization grant, and this was the first of those meetings.
     * Lots of discussions that were fun!  How could an NSF-funded institute help?
     * SSI in the UK: RSE (Research Software Engineers) support.  There are a few like that here, but not many.
     * Maybe tie it to the library?  But are libraries cost-center?  Revenue-generating?
     * Improve sustainability *and* career paths
 * Getting `unyt` into a position where it's good to release.
     * Very optimistic estimate to have it ready already!
     * Making lots of fun improvements.
     * Figuring out an existential issue: "WHY DOES THIS EXIST"
     * "Compared with ... this is fast, fewer LOC, ..."
  * Learning about [perf](https://pypi.org/project/perf/)
     * Eliminates a bunch of system jitter
     * Needs root on linux
     * Useful for getting *actual* performance benchmarks as it turns lots of optimizations off whereas `timeit` doesn't
     * This spawns lots of subprocesses and does statistical samples, handles processor affinity, etc

## Sunny

 * Working on GAMER+Grackle+etc.
 * Got it running ... 
 * Going to ask Justin for more help on this
 * "Kind of" a Grackle replacement
 * Performance-wise is unbearable.
 * Kacper suggests `valgrind`
 * Nathan suggests `vtune`
 * There's also `allinea`
 * Valgrind uses `cachegrind` plugin

## Kacper

 * Finalized Tale for Logan Ward. First "unofficial" publication for WT
 * Also worked on L-Py.  Python interface is nice.  Exposes everything. Here's an [example plant](https://sketchfab.com/models/7b15f0d9662045bf830fd29b795a0e5a)
 * SPIN open house, submitted two, got some applications.  Got applications for both yt hub support and for interactive spectral line interface. [SPIN](http://spin.ncsa.illinois.edu/mentors/)
 * WT: improving WebDAV filesystem.
 * Pull request for infrastructure -- how do you review that?!  Gotta deploy, test, etc.  Can only use nebula for testing.
 * Attended cancer thing with Boppart's group at Colleen Bushell's invitation.

## Xinyang

 * On the 100 halo data, trying to use scalar features as input -- testing max/medium/avg, but not really workable.
 * Looking for algorithms that use vector features.
 * Learning tensorflow.
     * Using the documentation
     * Tested some of the examples, haven't tried with the halos yet
     * Kacper has Cython [Frechet distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fr%C3%A9chet_distance) algorithm
     * [ML on BW with TF](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYMNj6u7hvk&t=5003s)