---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - May 30, 2018

## General Discussion

 * Side projects

## Wei-Ting

 * Scheme for parallel gravity
 * Difficulty in the MPI reduction, distribution of values (k/real space)

## Nayan

 * Weakref objects causing issues
 * Running in a notebook on RSL is a bit slow; not entirely sure why.  Was accessing 1Mpc box (proper, non-comoving, non-over-h)

## Nathanael

n/p

* Signed up for udemy course, Python for Data Science and Machine Learning Bootcamp
* Bought K&R book for learning C programming

## Kacper

 * Deployed a new version of [ytHub](https://hub.yt). (Rafts are here!!!)
     * Bumped girder to v2.5.0
     * Ported RSL and WT updates:
         * Rafts
         * traefik instead of chp
         * containers spawned via celery jobs
         * progress reports for spawned notebooks
         * one-click launch routes
     * TODO:
         * update docs
         * add monitoring for compute node(s)
         * formal software release + upload to pypi:
             * [girder_ythub](https://github.com/data-exp-lab/girder_ythub)
             * [gwvolman](https://github.com/data-exp-lab/gwvolman)
             * [girderfs](https://github.com/data-exp-lab/girderfs)
         * paper
 * WholeTale:
     * Re-enabled https for Tales
     * Worked with Craig on [user data migration](https://github.com/whole-tale/terraform_deployment/issues/21)
     * Met with summer interns, discussed a way to proceed with porting [OpenRefine ](http://openrefine.org/) to WT
 * RSL:
     * Tried to scrape data location using asyncio/aiohttp with mixed success. 

## Xinyang

n/p

## Matt

 * Data studio connector
 * CLI for ytree
 * EDGE face-to-face meeting
 * Crops in Silico
 * Transfer function widget

## Colleen

n/p

## Justin

 * Merging MHD into GAMER
     * Decided wants to merge CPU and GPU kernels into a single piece of code.
     * (Wants to test that first.)
     * Doesn't want to write MHD kernel twice.
 * Last meeting!

## Sunny

 * Working on advising committee report
     * Writing up lots for that
     * It's next Friday!
     * Comparing grackle and dengo for performance and freefall collapse test
     * In serial, Grackle much faster in lower densities.
     * Runtime seems to be somewhat inndependent of density
  * Include some GAMER and Grackle and Dengo free fall test stuff

## Nathan

 * Did the release for `unyt` -- now it's on pypi and conda-forge
 * Almost done with paper, just about ready to submit.
 * Working with SPIN students.
   * Clump finder might be too slow with grav binding
   * Other SPIN student is working on particle splats, aiming to work on SPH volume renderer
 * Not totally sure where to submit on the arXiv

## Meagan

 * Been doing the work of getting everything leading up to the Cis meeting merged in
 * Need to do change to using `unyt`
 * Implemented a case of bundling tons of communication channels together to make a single point of access for the models.  Makes converting the units easier, because can provide list of fields in a channel.
 * Want to finish the bundling before `unyt` work.
 * Looking into PlantGL/LPy code.  Figuring out where to stick in the PLY/OBJ work.

## Madicken

 * Last week had just gotten FRB to update based on the colormap.
 * Had a colormap variable in the FRB, but now pulling that out, putting it as an isolated variable.
 * Colormaps widget now updates based on an array of `f64` values, which it'll update and output a new `u8` array based on the different parameters -- if array changes, if scale changes, colormap changes, etc.
 * Working to get that widget communicating effectively.
 * Need to get some more things passing around.