---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - November 27, 2018

## General Discussion

 * ...

## Meagan

n/p

## Madicken

* Last week, worked lots on writing!
* Writing goes slower than expected, always.
* This week, half-time writing, half-time widgets.  Getting back up to speed on widget stuff.
* Null results!

## Sunny

* Gave a journal club talk yesterday
* Presented [this paper](http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/1538-4357/aadd97)
* Performance time for dengo and grackle -- 4-5x slower in some situations for dengo, but in some it runs faster.
* Runs up to 1e15/cc.
* Outputs are causing some issues -- need a way to get high-cadence outputs from GAMER at high refinement values
* Tensorflow thing -- added in density fluctuations with power spectrum.

## Cassidy

* Fixed the hdf5 issue!  Turns out GAMER was looking at the MESA installation.
* Got GAMER to run, plotted up the data, looked at the Mach Number.

## Nathan

* Going to try to get `unyt` working with yt 4.0 properly.

## Kacper

* Last week finalized the work related to dataverse.  UI and the other -- should be going forward!  Merge is coming.
* Aiming for first week of December for release of Whole Tale.
* [Open Science Infrastructure Working Group](https://github.com/whole-tale/whole-tale/issues/50#issuecomment-441837185) tomorrow.
* Looked at grabbing data into things.

## Matt

* Widgets
* grid visitors and ewah c++
* volren
* WT intern
* documents for group updated 

## Brooke

n/p

## Alex

* Connecticut is the same -- still OK pizza
* Believe repaired enrichment for PI/PII/PIII!  Yay.
* Sonification stuff in undergrad.  Played around with exploring astro.  Working with somebody about doing this elsewhere!
* Big paper coming out soon.

## Sam

* Working mostly on yt stuff -- looked at GeoViews last week.
* Working on fMRI data in yt.  Loaded it in, now going to layer and connect.
* Classes getting in the way.
* Moz app.

## Xinyang

* Basically trying to run scripts on BW to get the halo data at all times.  Want to see how the evolve with time.
* Yesterday, realized there were problems with the script -- lots of duplicate data.  Must have been something wrong, but figured it out last night.

## Nathanael

n/p

## Colleen

* SC18 -- really great, but not as warm as she'd like!
* Six of the nineteen BW interns were there as volunteers -- awesome!
* In situ viz workshop had some very cool stuff with Python.  Hank at UOregon.  Main person now at Livermore.  Wes also involved.

## Wei-Ting

* Got some accretion flow results!  Some surprises.
* IPMU in few days, and will miss two group meetings