---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - August 15, 2018

## General Discussion

 * Cassidy and Sam need to be added to the DXL mailing list
 * Cassidy also needs to be added to DXL group. 

## Nathan

* n/p

## Wei-Ting

* n/p

## Xinyang

* n/p

## Cassidy

* Working on writing test problems for GAMER. Originally trying to edit test problems to experiment with how tests work. Test problem is targeted towards turbulence. Working through general errors (floats and doubles). Plan is to make some diagnostic plots once it compiles again to see how turbulence drives the physics.
* Follow-up from last week's question from nathan:  Turbulence is driven by the initial velocity field as opposed to algorithmic solenoidal or compressive. 
* Getting close to being done w/ test problems! 

Cool update on fun stuff!
* Grad student employees (GEO) have a liason in the astro dept. Cassidy got invited to help with communications with them! Got a free beanie! 

## Nathanael

* n/p

## Colleen

* Started working on CiS poster for welcome reception (on the 24th). 
* Setting up unit test verification tests for CiS. Want to make sure when AJ gets back that their stuff works together so she can submit for publication.
* Setting up for independent study for viz class
  * starting to do lit review on that to prepare for prelim in Jan
* got a paper accepted to LDAV (Berkeley)

## Nayan

* n/p

## Meagan

* n/p

## Cyrus

* n/p

## Jarrett

* n/p

## Madicken

* working on PR for hackathon last week. 
  * adding in unit tests for the new features. Not positive how much coverage is needed (will the util functions need to be tested also)?
  * adding in documentation for the projections on the cookbook
* checked to see if all cartopy projections work. One (Transverse Mercator) doesn't work properly.
* Has SWC maintainer meeting today 

## Brandon

* n/p

## Matt

* n/p

## Kacper

* In Poland (perogi 4 lyfe!)

## Sunny

* n/p

## Sam

* Talked w/ matt about writing a blog post for the coding sprint last week. 
  * need to know: how long it should be, how much content (pics vs. notebooks)? 
* Classes: how many to start off with? (Cassidy is taking 13 credit hours.) 
* Can't find CS courses that seem super relevant to her area.  Maybe computational stats (in the stats dept)? 
