---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - October 2, 2018

## General Discussion

 * [Big data hub meeting](http://midwestbigdatahub.org/2018-all-hands-meeting/)
 * Still need a TV or something
 * [3D Textures in ThreeJS](https://github.com/mrdoob/three.js/issues/2247#issuecomment-426355443)
 * [web-sys crate published](https://rustwasm.github.io/2018/09/26/announcing-web-sys.html)

## Madicken

 * Last week at GHC in Houston -- 22k people.  Overwhelmingly huge!  New track on open source.
     * http://foss2serve.org/index.php/Stage_1_Activities
     * http://foss2serve.org/index.php/HFOSS_Projects
     * Lots of talk around HCI and accessibility
 * Filled out the convention center *and* hotels!

## Sunny

 * Finally merged dengo into GAMER!  Now running!
 * Merged grackle a while ago
 * Can do cross-comparison

## Meagan

 * Finished a mostly complete draft of the CiS paper, but minus the comparisons ... there was a lost set of code.
 * Thinking about going back and doing maintenance on some other repositories and other projects.  Gotten a few emails about other projects.  CGAL4Py and Tesseract specifically.

## Kacper

 * Sick and at home.
 * Spent almost the whole week in front of a whiteboard trying to flesh out the Whole Tale roadmap for the remaining 2PFY.
 * [Local WT deployment](https://github.com/whole-tale/girder_deploy/pull/6) available for testing.

## Nathanael

n/p

## Colleen

 * Nothing too exciting since yesterday.
 * Two main things: implementing continuous integration with travis and fixing an error in reading in the colors for vertices.
 * First try for colors didn't work.
 * Laptop kind of fixed.

## Brooke

 * Jacobian symbols not getting output, but instead just the printed out versions
 * Going to connect with Sunny about that

## Matt

 * BD Hubs all hands
 * Data science day
 * wasm

## Wei-Ting

 * Unsplit gravity method, but some issues are still there
 * Able to eliminate one of the features in the z boundary, but radial boundary still has one

## Nathan

 * Last week at the NumFOCUS summit!
 * First two days were sustainability summit -- discussions about project governance, roadmaps, funding, shared infrastructure (by NF), diversity and CoCs.
 * Concrete action items for improving things for yt.  Specifically things like roadmaps, governance, etc.  Figure out a way to fund an [Outreachy](https://www.outreachy.org/) intern.
 * Had a presentation about [Azure Pipelines](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/devops/pipelines/).
 * Considering trying Azure Pipelines.  Two big representatives from MS were there -- VS Code person for instance.
 * Second two days were for a users' forum.  Got contact with somebody from Microsoft, specifically about viz of people flowing through buildings.
 * Template governance document and a good discussion about units/unyt.  Some reluctance about sympy as a dep, so maybe replace with a mocked sympy.symbol object.
 * Met with someone from Fenics and interest in getting a frontend

## Sam

 * Went to the Ebert symposium *and* Data Science day.
 * Went to Hesitant Data Science day.
 * Ebert Symposium all day.
 * Karrie Karahalios and Katie Mack had great presentations
 * Solitary Confinement video was presented -- really intense
 * Trying to schedule interviews with researchers to get data to load into yt

## Cassidy

 * Bunch of random little things
 * Tomorrow: Hacker Within
 * Cool talk in Journal Club yesterday about CCSNe.

## Xinyang

 * Nothing in particular since we talked yesterday, but thinking about short term goals
 * Data dimension reduction and visualization

## Alex

 * Welcome!
 * Worked on grackle in the past
