---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - October 30, 2018

## General Discussion

 * ...

## Sunny

 * Dengo
     * something wrong with GAMER+dengo
     * underflow or overflow
 * Turbulence neural network
     * PPV
     * generated 3d turb power spectrum
     * spectral index 1..4
     * position velocity slice

## Cassidy

 * subgrid turbulence in the hydro gamer code
 * catching back up

## Nathanael

n/p

## Matt

 * bw proposal
 * piston
 * Leigh Star
 * hdf5

## Meagan

n/p

## Wei-Ting

 * Blue Waters proposal submitted!
 * Accretion phase of PopIII stars
 * Boundary conditions
 * Interface for GAMER to use data inside sim box to figure out BCs -- idea is to reduce BC effect
 * It does equilibrium!  It works!  Still a bit of boundary effects.

## Kacper

 * Last week had a lot of meetings.
 * Most revolved around results of a usability test for Whole Tale
 * Open Science Infra working group. ([notes](https://github.com/whole-tale/whole-tale/issues/43))
 * Implemented backend and UI for an endpoint that allows creating Tales from a external resources

## Brooke

 * Working on using gradient descent to solve for equilibrium values in a chemical network
 * Using Dengo to come up with the Jacobian
 * Has a running algorithm!  Start with small values of every element, but high values of electrons, HI, then things go negative density.

## Colleen

 * Shifted away from Cis toward INFO-510.
 * Looking at best practices for VR for sciviz.
 * Learning how people develop UIs, where they place them, do the users choose, etc.
 * Two PR opportunities.
 * Going to SIAMCSE.

## Sam

 * Classes -- midterm done with
 * Looking into IRB stuff and restrictions
 * Declarative language programming
 * Learned about JSON etc
 * Crashing some classes

## Xinyang

 * Doing machine learning on halos, using renaissance simulation data
 * Computing frechet distance of the four main features of halos
 * Not finding a lot of clustering -- might not be a good metric for distances between the halos.
 * Decided to increase the dataset and look at how the features evolve with time.  Been running scripts on blue waters to see how things are going.

## Madicken

 * Over the past week, working on [cartopy pull request](https://github.com/yt-project/yt/pull/1966).
 * Whack-a-mole with bugs, tests, etc.
 * Some of the errors are deep in the stack.
 * Focusing on finding a way to exclude that test on XCode.
 * Met with Elisha, went over Git and Idyll
 * Somebody is trying to clone work from grad school, but can't get at the code, so trying to get that working and out of there.

## Nathan

n/p

## Alex

 * Working on Phase Space sampling of dark matter particles in gamer
 * Some grad work paper finishing up
 * Enrichment prescription

