---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - June 13, 2018

## General Discussion

 * Yay for Kacper!

## Cyrus



## Colleen

n/p

## Kacper

* out of work for most of the week
* helped with WholeTale v0.3 release
    * docker swarm provisioning
    * create hook on github that pushes to docker hub
    * once image is built, webhook from docker hub
    * then, autodeploys
    * autodeployah

## Wei-Ting

* merging geometry work in gamer, profiling it
* only 5% slower
* Recommended paper https://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2487
* Kacper noted his (Polish-language) thesis has test problems that may be relevant as well

## Brandon
* wrote a function to perform off-axis projections
    * currently debugging and testing function
    * rotates points on the image with the rotation matrix
* attempting to understand SPH
  * Some [notes](http://helper.ipam.ucla.edu/publications/pcatut2005/pcatut_5478_preprint.pdf) from Joe Monaghan 

## Meagan

* Reviewed a paper!  Hooray.
* Merging things in for fork communicator in `cis_interface`.
    * Found a bug that only occurs in a very small, asynchronous case
    * Pre-initialization async receipt of messages
* Updating documentation
    * Going to ask for another set of eyes
    * In prep for the workshop
* Prepping materials for workshop and hackathon, coming up with test case, getting folks set up with the package.
* How to deal with Windows?  Dependency on the zeromq lib is a bit tricky.  (`czmq` in addition to `libzmq`)
* Appveyor can be tricky!
    * Nathan points out there's a thing at the end of the yt appveyor that does some useful things

```
on_finish:
- ps: $blockRdp = $true; iex ((new-object net.webclient).DownloadString('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/appveyor/ci/master/scripts/enable-rdp.ps1'))
```

## Cassidy

 * Working with yt and GAMER trying to get them working
 * Ran through yt quickstarts
 * Blast waves!  Spherical collapse!  Made some volume renderings and slices and whatnot.
 * Did some sample data from yt
 * Reading up on subgrid turbulence modeling and translating the equations and algorithms from Grete 2017 into pseudocode.  Turning that into yt derived fields.
 * Set up a VM in nebula (has been fun!)

## Sunny

 * Did advising committee on Friday.  Got lots of questions!
 * Working on dengo since then
 * May have figured out the problem with the performance!
     * Normalize all the variables to unity before sending into ODE solver
     * After each timestep, the abundance changes by many order of magnitude
     * Because the absolute tolerance is relative to unity, this means many small timesteps.

## Nathanael

n/p

## Nayan

n/p

## Jarrett

 * Making some progress!
 * [trimesh](https://github.com/mikedh/trimesh)
 * Splitting up isocontours in yt, feeding into trimesh, doing neat things with that
 * Arrived on trimesh after repeated issues with another package and installation

## Xinyang

* Now features include: density, temperature, ionization fraction, radial velocity, peak velocity, cell mass, halo mass, max & mean density, max & mean temperature (11 total).
* Trying to compute Frechet distance for new features and make plots.
* Radial velocity feature has zeros in the valid data, so log normalization could not work. (Try using linear normalization.)
* Trying to include Seaborn plots in one image, but Seaborn jointplot uses multiple axes objects so setting axes in plt.subplot command could not work.
* Planning to summarize info from plots.
* Reading about autoencoder. 
* Check the normalization's impact on the distance
* Joelfest: Santa Cruz galaxy conference

## Matt

 * [git-annex](https://writequit.org/articles/getting-started-with-git-annex.html) and [git-lfs](https://git-lfs.github.com/)
     * git annex can do box support and illinois's box has "unlimited" storage
 * Cis presentation

## Madicken

* Finished and submitted PR to use listeners between FRB and colormap widgets
* Refactored the colormap widget to only laod colormap arrays into WASM once
* Started working on interactive buttons to move vertically and horizontally within a data plane, not fully hooked up in FRB yet, but the edge values currently update. 

## Nathan

* Pretty busy helping out SPIN and GSOC students
    * GSOC:
        * Ash Kelly is almost done with the first goal of his project: interpolating data onto uniform resolution grids.
        * Abhishek working hard on the yt test suite
    * SPIN:
        * They can tell you :)
* Tinkering with replacing `yt.units` with `unyt` in the `yt-4.0` branch
* JOSS paper is submitted, currently waiting on editor to assign a referee
    * Lots of interest in `unyt` last week from twitter and arxiv posting. Got a few issues from prominent scipy people. It might be worth looking into how hard it would be to make `unyt_array` a wrapper around instead of a subclass of `ndarray`. One advantage of that is that we could in principle switch out the underlying data store with another type that implements the `ndarray` interface ([issue](https://github.com/yt-project/unyt/issues/15))