---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - April 30, 2019

## General Discussion

It's Nathan's last day and everyone is going to (really) miss him.

## Sam

n/p

## Alex

n/p

## Sunny

 * Running some FLASH sims
 * Dual energy formalism might be causing issues.
 * BW allocation is reactivated, and will move there
 * Redoing some of the original initial conditions fixing the lognormal distribution
 * Going to look into finite differencing the energy term in the jacobian in dengo

## Kacper

 * Last week tried to get v0.7 of WT out the door.  Had issues getting release candidate onto Chameleon.  Finally managed to do that, now testing.
 * MH is porting to Kubernetes.
 * MH also trying to solve the FS.  (How to get the mount done on the k8 container -- flex volume or [container storage interface](https://medium.com/google-cloud/understanding-the-container-storage-interface-csi-ddbeb966a3b)
 * Exciting thing KK is working on is with Yuvi, to extend repo2docker to work with WT-specific images.  We will adopt the pangeo model, so add a custom plugin for repo2docker that detects a certain file.
 * Think of WT as an interactive environment to create binders.

## Wei-Ting

 * Launched a production run on Blue Waters!  Will probably wait for a while to get the results.  Going to use the remaining time to finish the estimation part.
 * PdV heating, fragmentation, etc, estimated in the paper.  Over the 20AU regions, some interesting interaction.

## Meagan

 * Trying to merge in the changes to refactor language addition in `yggdrasil`.
 * Added an interface for R.
 * Working on getting cis UI to use `yggdrasil`.
 * (Learning a bit about Girder.)

## Xinyang

 * Made synthetic observations from SPH data from Jared.  Used trident.
 * Trained with TF on that data.
 * Hoping to get something done by next week.
 * Which factors to include.

## Brooke

n/p

## Nathan

n/p

## Matt

 * Moore foundation meeting
 * Hugo

## Cassidy

 * Grading!
 * Working on a two-page summer research proposal.

## Madicken

 * Organizing committee for the John Hunter Excellence in plotting competition.  Should submit!  Deadline is June 8.
 * DISC committee nominations are open.  Folks should consider joining.  Expanding to different types of events.  Also working on a cookbook for open source projects.
 * Working on the denovo frontend again.  Had taken a break, but now back at it.  Restructuring a bit.  Can read in the metadata.
 * In the transport solves, discretize in space and in energy.  For a very coarse solve, the mesh will be in 3D space, with an energy space as well.  This might be something like 26 energy groups.
 * People tend to look at highest and lowest, as well as in center (where there are resonances).  One way would be to make a derived field that's a total energy, total flux, total source.
 * How to manage all of these?  NG and MT suggested a few things.
 * Angular flux viz might be novel.

## Jared

n/p