---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - May 9, 2018

## General Discussion

 * HDF group
     * Differing opinions on how much this would affect "prototypical researcher"
     * Concerns about API changes and managing those
 * Duplex is scary

## Nathanael

 * Finals!

## Roshini

n/p

## Kacper

 * Made progress on RSL.  Can launch notebooks without going through Girder.
 * Tagged v0.2 for Whole Tale!
     * Home directories
     * Other stuff
     * iframes almost ready -- using wildcard certs from LetsEncrypt.  (Those need to use DNS challenge, though, and GoDaddy was not great for that.)

## Matt

 * Demeshening bug
 * Converted volume rendering IDV camera to use traitlets

## Nathan

 * Trying to finish up unyt -- a few remaining broken things
 * Submitted Active Particles PR to Enzo

## Wei-Ting

 * MPI of self-gravity in GAMER
     * Can't compile without linking to HDF5
     * Segfault in MPI_INIT
     * Working on getting real and complex to pass simultaneously

## Xinyang

 * Using Lynda to learn TF
     * More helpful than she had imagined!
     * Lots of visual, learning lots.
     * Write the notebook using TF to load the data.
     * Currently using scalars

## Vasu

n/p

## Sunny

 * GR final
     * Not too bad
     * The other final is really hard
 * Making dengo slightly more memory efficient
     * Fewer CVODE initializations
     * Saves a bit of time
 * Working on advising committee meeting notes, etc

## Colleen

 * After the Cis meeting yesterday, adding more visuals to the slides, make things a bit clearer
 * Get things to run so we can generate heat map comparisons
 * Snag with reading in the LPy data -- expected in the Venkat format, but LPy outputs in PLY
     * Model integration branch may have the fix
 * Having fun with skimage for segmentation of big data

## Meagan

 * Bug with integrating models in Cis.  All the output and input in Python pickle files.  (Pickled arrays!)
     * This could knock out the buffer size
     * Socket acknowledgment was inserting some issues, with the address size, etc
     * Moved info into the header for worker sockets
 * Plants and ray tracing

## Madicken

 * Colormapping widget -- passing between Python and JS!
 * Can see in the JS debugger now
 * Running into an issue with the widget -- when Jupyter loads, it loads all the widget extensions at startup.  Timeout at 30s and hitting that.
 * Finishing that up (hopefully today) and then use it on the FRBs.  Then can render with different colormaps.
 * Heard back from ORNL about their data. Partial signoff on data sharing; will be sending soon.

## Brooke

n/p