---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - December 04, 2018

## General Discussion

 * Part-ay at Matt's place on Dec 14

## Xinyang

 * Fixing code

## Wei-Ting

n/p

## Matt

 * Worked a lot on Rust
 * Teaching all done

## Alex

 * Uh oh, account issues.
 * Sonification moving forward, yay!
 * ["Sparse Bump" sonification](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/11893295_11) -- ML method to isolate peaks from noise and then sonify those peaks

## Madicken

 * Jupyter widgets
   * Had some trouble reinstalling the widget code, but fixed now
   * The rust dev environment is much improved compared to a year ago, and installation was great
   * Need to get stuff up into Lab eventually
   * Refactoring some widget controls -- trying some new layout widgets
 * Nuclear papers, too!
 * Mentoring HS student on data visualization using [Idyll](https://idyll-lang.org/)
     * Working on linked viz of seismic data
     * With sound and wave viz

## Sunny

 * Working on code for chemical network
 * Added cooling time refinement to GAMER -- using the cooling timestep for the timestep evolution.
 * Using a more realistic equation of state
 * Throughout GAMER, gamma is used in many different places, which makes it difficult to replace EOS wholesale.
 * Visualized accuracy of predicting the spectral index.  The TF model is better at predicting the *velocity* spectral index, but not the *density* spectral index.
 * Looking at how to manage the velocity dimension.

## Colleen

 * VRTK update, combined with Oculus update, had to reimplement everything that pre-existed.  Last week has been reimplementing everything this semester.
 * For Cis, can do the rendering!  Gets the color, geometry, etc, and makes nice pictures.
 * Big set of info about PPFD also arrived. (This helps put things together!)

## Sam

 * Need support on finishing up fMRI support.  Got it to render, but can't get interactivity to work.  Need some help with that, and with volume rendering.
 * Not sure when to call it done!  Matt suggested either a frontend or a narrative about using yt with fMRI.
 * Applied to Mozilla Open Leaders program/fellowship.
 * Went to a CS talk by Sean Follmer ([like this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8sheoGMsy3Q))

## Brooke

 * Lots of grad school apps!
 * Got Sunny's notebook working, and can compare results to "real" results.  Can start debugging, actually identifying convergence.

## Meagan

 * Finished implementing all the data types in a JSON-compatible format!  Can use JSON serialization/deserialization in each language.
 * Going to implement handler on the C side.
 * If we want to send data via the web, lots of tools for that, too.
 * Had been using cerberus, but it had lots of additional built-in things.  Moving toward JSON-schema.
 * Got comments back on the paper.  Some easy to address, others less so.

## Cassidy

 * Working on subgrid scale turbulence.
 * Got the code to run, and it segfaults, and it does some iterations, so now, figuring out why it segfaults!

## Nathan

 * Getting yt 4.0 working with unyt!  Not quite working yet, but thinking it will.  Holding off on updating the pull request.
 * Doing [advent of code](https://adventofcode.com/)!  Matt offers a prize for the leaderboard winner.
 * Enjoying learning rust.

## Jared

 * Welcome, Jared! :+1:
 * Did lots of IGM modeling, large-scale simulations, wrote a spectral extractor, etc
 * Lot of general relativity, lot of cosmology, lot of debugging

## Kacper

 * Exciting point of view: nearing a new release!  This will allow ingesting data from dataverse.
 * Aiming for a release this week.  v0.5.
 * ND team started work this last Monday and will add support for workspaces in UI.

## Nathanael

n/p