---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - December 11, 2018

## General Discussion

## Cassidy

 * Almost done with the semester!

## Jared

 * Fixed first bug in yt!  Hooray!  Issued a pull request.
 * Finished a paper from grad school!  Yay!  ([here](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.03217))
 * Spent time learning about AI, bots, git, etc.

## Meagan

 * Frantically trying to finish things up before winter break!
 * Got some JSON decoding in C
 * Ref report for the paper

## Brooke

n/p

## Madicken

 * Submitted a paper!  Going to post on the arxiv.
 * Refactored widgets to use a `GridBox`

## Sam

 * A good week!  One final.  Set up for Spring courses.
 * Met with Matt about MRI dashboard, got a clear vision.

## Wei-Ting

n/p

## Sunny

 * Including more realistic EOS in Gamer.  Especially spread throughout the Riemann solver.
 * Flux fix-up in Gamer.  Tries to recalculate the flux through more refined levels.
 * Is it realistic to also fix the internal energy based on that?
 * Maybe a better way for turbulence is to look at whether it's compressive or solenoidal, and have NN suggest that.  Can have impact on star formation results.  But, how do we differentiate?

## Alex

 * No mourning of data to be had!  They decomissioned a system is all -- the filesystem was shared!  Hooray!  But then it was corrupted.
 * Got verification!
 * Radiative star clusters + enrichment doesn't result in mass conservation.
 * Four finals and a final project and an assignment

## Colleen

 * All done with classes forever
 * PPFD on more than one triangle
 * Haven't looked at performance
 * Without the pods, something like have the time -- hooray!

## Matt

 * Audobon society
 * Rust cleanup
 * NG: Measurements of "stuff" in, like, water, irregularly spaced but along a path -- for instance along a river

## Kacper

 * Last week was mostly releasing release candidate for Whole Tale 0.5.
 * Found some bugs relating to handling HTTP requests
 * Size mismatch for gzipped vs ungzipped files
 * People should be testing Whole Tale!
 * wholetale.org
 * Still focusing on the user experience
 * Wrote a custom jupyterhub authenticator for girder.  So now you can use girder oauth as a mechanism for identity in jupyterhub.

## Nathan

 * Working on getting unyt working with yt -- but this has led to a bunch of circular dependencies for how we use unyt, etc etc.  Fixing bugs in unyt has revealed issues in yt.
 * Got a fun bug report about Farad.
 * ML: Can you make a field that isn't float64's?
 * Somehow we broke reading big-endian gadget data.
 * Still working on advent of code, and still enjoying rust.
 * Structs and traits in rust are fun.  Implementing interfaces makes things a lot easier.
 * Got a bit more understanding of error handling.  Learning lots from reading code from other people.

## Xinyang

n/p

## Nathanael

n/p
