---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - April 02, 2019

## General Discussion



## Kacper

 * Lots of awesome WT updates.  Screencasts.
 * 40k lines of code!

## Nathan

 * Some performance issues in the yt-using-unyt, and big Pull Request for unyt-in-yt issued
 * Doc updates afterward

## Cassidy

 * Hacker Within presentation went well, and now she's president of THW
 * Tomorrow, WIA is doing LaTeX, week after is Unix, then Python
 * CFL timestep checking ...

## Meagan

 * Figured out the issue from last week with Matlab
     * Most recent versions of matlab require tty to start
     * This messes things up if you don't have a tty attached to a subprocess
     * "Can't stop, won't stop"
 * Working on docs to merge the language refactor

## Xinyang

 * Trying to use trident with the data from Jared
 * Some other homework to grade, so there's been a sticking point

## Jill

 * Learned idyll and then taught idyll
 * Overcommitted to a theme of Corgi photos and Corgi information

## Wei-Ting

 * Absorption coefficient table has been implemented in GAMER
     * Looking at all the frequencies, getting spectrum out, average over spectrum in each bin
     * The coefficient is just a function of temp, then scale up by density factors
 * Evolving the disk for longer, and it becomes gradually more unstable
 * If we evolve longer, we will probably see something
 * The specific high-temperature cell can potentially be because from shocks in the box.
 * Clear shock front.
 
## Jared

 * Spent lots of time looking at yt, and in particular the streamline implementation.
 * Trying to figure out how to get what he's done into the streamlines.
 * Still a bit unsure about the design and how to do that the best.
 * For instance, supply a function that provides the new path, or pass a list of points that would be on the path.
 * FV codes assume piecewise constant inside a zone
 * `AMRKDTree` is where he's focusing right now

## Madicken

n/p

## Matt

 * WT
 * Teaching
 * yt frontends

## Sam

 * Working on github data -- sqlite
 * Classes are classes
 * Final projects for info processing -- going to roll yt into that, and find 3 or 4 physical science domains, grab some data, record whole process of getting it into yt
 * Thinking of going to Purdue DS day next week
 * Madicken and Sam will do anonymous survey followup to yt-dev workshop

## Sunny

 * Figured out how to use the Profiler on the CUDA code.
     * Was trying to do it interactively, but that's hard!
     * Workaround is to use a function in the NVIDIA profiler to output the profiler as a separate document
 * Major issue is the memory bandwidth.  (Because we're doing table lookups?)
 * Concentration vector might be the slow part?
 * Texture lookups
 * dy/dt and Jacobian heavily depend on concentration vector

## Colleen

n/p

## Alex

 * Kinda stuck on water
 * [Omukai 2005](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/#abs/arXiv:astro-ph%2F0503010)
 * Put in a UV-dissociation model, trying to figure out if it works
 * Paper that came out in 2018 by Bialy has a water network
 * [SC18 proceedings](https://sc18.supercomputing.org/proceedings/sci_viz/sci_viz_files/svs106s2-file1.pdf)
 * Advantages of matching Bialy 2018 is that it tested in higher-metallicity regimes
 * Abundances vs number densities