---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - February 26, 2019

## General Discussion

 * yt dev workshop next week!
 * FFAR/cropsinsilico news!

## Sam

 * Working on github data!  Downloading from the API.
 * Setting up a virtual environment for that.  Looking for sustainability info.  Who is contributing to which projects?
 * This is part of the mozilla leadership program.
 * Classes.

## Madicken

 * Missed last group meeting, as was teaching a summer school in Canberra.
 * Worked on review paper from dissertation.  It was accepted!  Have been reviewing papers over the last week.
 * Working with Nathan to understand yt maintenance and soon hitting the denovo frontend for her next paper.

## Ed

 * Bees!
 * Last week here.  Going back to Australia to finish up.
 * Last time, had problems with the ray tracer. Moved to discrete space. Been writing it up over the last few weeks.
 * Implicit collisions / pathfinding become different in discrete grids.

## Colleen

n/p

## Harry

 * Not much to add!
 * Cleanup.
 * Nimrod workflow.

## Nathan

 * Almost done getting unyt 2.0 out the door!
     * Can spell out "kilometer" and whatnot
     * It will resolve the units to the shorthand symbol names
     * Unit systems know about the "unit registry" -- or rather, unit registries gained a unit system.
 * yt 3.5.1

## Meagan

 * Finished up the paper!  Now it's `yggdrasil`.  Setting up getting the package names.
 * Lots of fun updates to the code.
 * Working on recommendation letters!
 * Going to work on a guide for adding new languages

## Sunny

 * Porting dengo to use a different solver.  This includes GPU porting of the RHS, as well as the non-implicit solver.
 * Haven't done much with the DL project lately.

## Kacper

n/p

## Xinyang

n/p

## Jill

 * Continuing to teach
 * Learning about ML and neural networks

## Nathanael

n/p

## Brooke

n/p

## Alex

 * Working on UV dissociation of water in grackle
 * Implemented rates, created test problem, etc.  Adding different rates with flag-based switching.

## Cassidy

 * Doing great.
 * Doing stuff with GAMER -- turbulence is driven *and* driving!

## Matt

 * Lots of annual reports and grant proposals

## Wei-Ting

 * Grackle + gamer in accretion disk.  Touching the limit of grackle now, possibly.
 * pygrackle is helpful for figuring this out

## Jared

 * Working on some yt stuff
 * Non-local analysis / streamline stuff.
 * Investigating `numba`.  Issues with caching and class definitions.
 * Finished agent, testing on space invaders.
 * Porting to the nano cluster.
 * Had done some keras, now using TF directly.  Got the GPU version running on nano.
 * Custom gym environment.  Interfacing with pygame.