---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - January 29, 2019

## General Discussion

 * It is too cold.  Don't come in tomorrow.

## Wei-Ting

n/p

## Jared

 * ML!
 * Built a basic NN from scratch.  Turns out, can do it.  Used it on MNIST.
 * Getting into reinforcement learning.
 * Trained for space invaders using gym.
 * Just started a project using some thesis data for NN for predicting properties of halos.

## Colleen

 * Working on ray tracer with the Australian visitors
 * Combining everything with the ray tracer
 * Switching gears (finally) to dissertation -- outlining that, getting back into oversegmentation stuff from Berkeley
 * Doesn't know that embree can support the needs

## Meagan

 * Made revisions to the paper!  50% longer than it was.
 * Complex in C on Windows stinks

## Cassidy

 * Doing some driven turbulence acceleration fields in GAMER, moving gas around, etc
 * Dinosaurs -- can make slices but not yet VR

## Alex

 * Finishing up some water stuff!
 * Nathan suggests "[address sanitizer](https://github.com/google/sanitizers/wiki/AddressSanitizer)" which is supported in newer GCC releases

## Kacper

 * New release of WT coming up with modifying data underneath a running Tale

## Sunny

 * Working on using NN on spectral cubes
 * Simulating coarser beam with gaussian filter
 * Adding in some noise
 * Current performance of the NN (three layer taking in 64^2 image from 512^3 data)
 * NN can't quite tell the spectral index for the density, but sort of works for turbulence
 * Was trying to modify gamma in GAMER

## Matt

 * Multi-index

## Brooke

n/p

## Xinyang

n/p

## Ed

 * First week

## Madicken

n/p

## Sam

n/p

## Harry

 * First week
 * Looking at bee vision timestepping, visualization, process automation stuff

## Nathanael

n/p

## Nathan

 * `unyt` 2.0 -- fixing lots of stuff, including automatic unit simplification, adding an LRU cache
 * Currently `unyt` uses MKS by default and has a keyword argument.  But that means that setting different defaults is tricky.  Working on a way to make it to set custom unit systems.
 * Looking at configuration context systems.  A "unit system" will need to be carried around by everything.
 * Looking for release by end of week.