---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - June 6, 2018

## General Discussion

 * [Holly Bik's tweet](https://twitter.com/hollybik/status/1003998179149471745)


## Sunny

 * Working on report for advising committee!  Hooray!
 * Good work, Sunny

## Justin

n/p

## Nathanael

n/p

## Colleen

n/p

## Madicken

 * Separating some of the functionality from the fixed resolution buffer, putting it into the colormaps widget
 * Not quite working yet, but getting the listeners going!
 * UInt8 Array is empty the first time, but after a listener fires it updates.

## Matt

 * Boppart data
 * Grid visitors
 * Sunny
 * Crops in silico

## Meagan

 * Automatically generating schema for options for different models.
 * Setting up connections between models -- ultimately to generate UI options
 * [Cerberus](http://docs.python-cerberus.org/en/stable/)

## Nathan

 * The `unyt` paper is done!  Waiting for signoff/feedback from final co-author.  Submitting to [JOSS](http://joss.theoj.org/) and arxiv soon.
 * Going to open issues to let other packages know about performance issues
 * Helping the new students getting started!  And, the existing GSoC students!  Everyone is doing well.


## Nayan

 * Homology of photon bubbles during reioinization to look at timescales.
 * Got the weakly-referenced objects.  Ran into a bug with integers and floats.  Voxelizing a mesh!

## Kacper

 * Helped with the paper for DIBBs project meeting.  Reporting during the PI meeting.  (Poster and two-pager.)
 * Updated the API for Whole Tale to facilitate iframe support for new UI.
 * Expanded yt hub for the GAIA sprint at Flatiron.  Published new dataset that is a mock simulation of GAIA.

## Xinyang

 * Working on analysis of the rensim data.
 * Been reading about autoencoder and how we could apply it to this.
 * This helps us with determining which features are relevant for TF.

## Wei-Ting

 * Working on accretion phase of first stars.
 * This week merged part of the cylindrical hydro solver into GAMER.
 * ...may not be well-vectorized...
 * Estimates on the disk scales.
 * Mass ratio between the disk and the star may be strange and not in a good area.
 
## Brandon

 * Working on volume renderer for smoothed particle hydrodynamics

## Jarrett

 * Working on tracking molecular clouds.  Familiarizing with yt.

## Cyrus

 * Feasibility study of inverse cascade of magnetohydrodynamics in early universe.
 * Been reading some papers!

## Cassidy

 * Spherical collapse simulation to look at subgrid turbulence models.

