---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - April 11, 2018

## Matt

 * Idyll has a lot of promise
 * Writing CSSI grant about Gracklengo

## Justin

 * Revising boundary conditions implementation in GAMER -- preparing for non-cartesian coords.  Finished for serial!  Wooo!
 * Got good news!

## Meagan

 * Redoing work that was lost on Nebula -- got it back up to the point where it was lost!
 * Working on C api for using units.
 * Got one of the nebula instances running and has access to Matlab -- integrating two of the models from Cis!  Hooray!
 * Setting aside units in favor of model integration at present time

## Brooke

 * Can't figure out why scatter plot is plotting way too many points at high-z
 * Weird because of the x/y axis source (same dictionary)
 * Going to reimplement redshift without pandas

## Xinyang

 * Generated pipeline for halos and stored in HDF5 file.
 * Pumping it up to 100 halos!  Looking at best machine learning method for vector features.  Currently mostly familiar with scalar feature algorithms.

## Wei-Ting

 * Self-gravity in cylindrical coords in GAMER in serial
 * Looking at some test problems that will help with that
 * DISCO has some great test problems

## Sunny

 * Working on Dengo
 * Trying to come up with an interface that you can access Dengo via another hydro code.  Working to mimic the Grackle interface.
 * Got some of them working.  Got OpenMP kind of working?  Awesome.  But, there are problems: when data is too big, it segfaults.
 * Built a shared library for dengo!

## Kacper

 * Did a bunch of writing
     * Whole Tale documentation about creating Tales
     * Requirements for a frontend
     * Two proposals for SPIN: improving yt hub infra, spectra fitting Web UI
 * WT and other projects are using LetsEncrypt for SSL certs.  A few months ago they added wildcard support.  Now can generate a cert for the entire domain and everything in it.  Been updating the WT and other things to use this.
 * Finalizing webdav file system for WT.  Matt tried it on Chromebook but it was strange.
 * Learning TensorFlow.  Got an account on Nano.  Experimental -- various NVIDIA cards with infiniband.

## Madicken

 * Did some software carpentry stuff last week.  Taught `git` to Women in Bio.
 * Reduce cognitive load on the learner by using VCS to tell stories.
 * Today, guest lecturing for Katy's transport class.
 * Made progress with the frontend.  Semi-working version of the frontend.  Now having an issue with the `source` field being a bit different.
 * Want to submit a PR, but need to figure out the right way to address fields.
 * Talked about maybe doing `fluid_type` based collections for fluxes etc

## Vasu

 * Working on image canvas and applying colormap to an image array
 * Converting from Python to JS

## Nathanael

 * Still been iterating on the inspector widget and dataset widget
 * Learning how to implement grid structure as a ThreeJS object
 * Hypothetically, ThreeJS would be standalone but potentially linked to the inspector widget
 * Going to come up as a view

## Colleen

 * Setting up tests with dummy datasets for the Crops in Silico ray tracing.
 * Working with Meagan on integration of the models.
 * Trying to bypass LPy situation at present.
 * At meeting asked AJ to kick out data from Houdini files.
 * Takes in PLY file.  Can do PLY, TXT, etc.
