---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - April 16, 2019

## General Discussion

 * [wasmer](https://medium.com/wasmer/executing-webassembly-in-your-rust-application-d5cd32e8ce46) and [wasmer-python-ext](https://github.com/wasmerio/python-ext-wasm)
 * library talk today was canceled, but astro talk looks fun
 * (students) by next week please send one paragraph update on your projects, including any figures. Matt will be using these at the Moore symposium.

## Jared

 * Finished implementation of line integrals -- works with vector fields and scalar fields
 * Looking at merging into yt
 * Looked at streamline stuff

## Madicken

n/p

## Kacper

 * WT 36-month review went well!
 * Installed some missing software, and now "run notebook" runs for the yt docs.  But now it fails and hangs.

## Meagan

 * In the process of doing automation for generating docs for different languages in yggdrasil, decided to also change the serialization classes and data types to wrap together all the typing, etc, for the docs.
 * "I have all the schema information, so why not validate the input to all the classes?"  But now it's kind of slow.

## Xinyang

n/p

## Matt

 * Ariel and neuro
 * OpenGL/OpenVR

## Cassidy

 * Learning some VR / OpenGL
 * Ran a linux tutorial at THW
 * Wrote to Justin

## Jill

n/p

## Colleen

n/p

## Alex

 * Found some additional reactions -- added in, updated Jacobian
 * Considerably slower now.  Implemented RK4 and now getting some cool results.

## Wei-Ting

 * Some wave modes in the disk.  Optical depth is tracking the wavemodes -- not sure if this is true or an artifact.
 * Computing optical depth from radial structures and getting a fitting function from there.  Likely more physically motivated.  Some interesting results about tidal field, cooling, and fragmentation.
 * Sobolev vs radtrans.

## Sunny

 * CUDA solver is slow.  Lots of time in Jacobian -- not sure if it's in inverting or in calculating.
 * Now, getting about 50x speedup over CPU
 * Not much on DL this week.

## Nathan

 * Stuff going on!  Working on some doc stuff.

## Sam

 * Rare productive week
 * Sorted out github, ended up abandoning the GH script.  Using dask manually instead of using the script.
 * Did a survey of folks that came to the dev workshop.  7-8 responses.  Generally good feedback and folks mostly liked the open structure.
 * DS Foundations Day at Purdue.