---
tags: dxl
---

# Group Meeting - August 08, 2018

## General Discussion

 * Nothing

## Nathan

 * `unyt` paper is almost ready!  Some comments on the paper that need to be resolved.  Almost "published."
 * Helping out GSoC students that are finishing up.
 * Working on sprint with [`pyart`](https://arm-doe.github.io/pyart/) devs to build a frontend.
 * Experimenting with loading non-gridded, real data in altitude-azimuth-range data format.
     * The actual data are a bit more complex than realized.
     * In this dataset, 9200 sets of alt-az, measurements at each discrete locations of 500 distances.  Unstructured mesh in spherical coordinates.
     * Going to push yt in that direction to see where the pain points are.  Not quite sure how useful that will be, but also might explore default regridding using `pyart` directly.

## Jarrett

 * Working on parallelizing the clump prediction part of the script.  Had some issues with sqlalchemy and MPI.
 * Unix `time` command was behaving a bit oddly.  Not sure what was going on -- strange interactions under the hood.
 * Debugging the script.
 * Reading Protostars & Planets.

## Brandon

n/p

## Sunny

 * Working on dengo again.  Chemistry solver.  Trying to improve it.
 * Still is very slow.  Much slower than grackle.  (10x!)
 * Trying a few new implementations.  Coming up with a more complicated Jacobian.  Internal energy is not exactly updated in the Jacobian.  Sped up in stiff regions of phase space.
 * Tried to rearrange indices to speed up memory access.
 * Next week at MESA summer school.

## Madicken

 * Haven't talked since scipy!  Been working on widget stuff based on feedback from folks at scipy.  Working on pulling out widget controls right now to expand possible ecosystem.
 * Gone back to thesis work and writing.  Been dealing with some software issues with thesis work, including build system issues.  Codebase changed underneath her, and so rebasing is now pretty tricky. Looking for a workaround.
 * Working on hackathon with `pyart` data.  Implementing in the plotting functions in yt functionality that pulls transforms through -- geographic and otherwise.  `Cartopy` exposes this to matplotlib, and trying to feed that through.

## Cyrus

n/p

## Matt

 * Gracklengo did not get funded :frowning: 
 * Crops in silico conference last week

## Cassidy

 * Few weeks ago, still struggling to get initial conditions to evolve properly.  Wei-Ting and Justin troubleshot (troubleshooted?  unknown) and it got taken care of.  The mach number of one cell was around 10,000.  Changing the reconstruction to a more stable version fixed that.
 * Working on driving the turbulence.  Using the Kritsuk 2007 explanation of driven.
 * Initial worked on a global acceleration parameter to give a kick, but now we're going to do that based on the initial conditions.
 * Working on how to implement that as an acceleration field, fed in through the self-gravity.
 * Lots of options for this!  NG suggests choosing one that allows tuning solenoidal/compressive.

## Colleen

 * Crops in silico symposium last week.  Spending time sending out emails to follow up on collaborations.
 * Implementing `CTest` harnesses for testing the ray tracer.  Working on rendering out images from the ray tracer.
 * Talked with AJ and Matt about publication ideas and targets for those.

## Kacper

 * Working on the publication aspect of Whole Tale.  DataONE will be first target, then Globus.
 * Preparing workshop in four weeks, where we're inviting lots of potential users / collaborators / related projects.
 * Two weeks ago went to Pittsburgh to be on a panel related to containers and whatnot in research/HPC.
 * Working on pet project related to arxiv scraping and software usage in those papers -- specifically, what is used to create those papers.  Word clustering (openrefine), etc.
 * There are some image hashing algorithms that downsample and create checksum that allows similarity clustering.  (For instance, [ImageHash](https://pypi.org/project/ImageHash/) implements these.)
 * Going away for three weeks next week.

## Nathanael

n/p

## Wei-Ting

 * Working on the cylindrical gravity solver.
 * Have to rewrite the MPI version a bit.  Few email exchanges with Shengtai.  Suggested using a staggered grid on the solver, but that's probably a heavy lift to implement.
 * NG notes that yt can handle staggered grids.
 * Noted that wants to look at vorticity in cylindrical coordinates in yt.

## Sam

 * Working hard on the sprint, looking over NG's shoulder, Bobby and Zach's as well.

## Meagan

n/p

## Nayan

n/p

## Xinyang

n/p