---
tags: dxl, notes
---

# SciPy 2018 Notes and Whatnot

The vast majority of these notes were taken by Matt, and if things are incorrect, poorly phrased or somehow elide important or relevant pieces of information, the blame should be placed on him.

## DXL group member talks:

(In chronological order)

 * Matt: Lunch on Data Viz, 12PM Wednesday
 * Meagan: Ballroom, 4PM Wednesday
 * Nathan (maybe): Ballroom, lightning talks Wednesday
 * Nathan: Ballroom, 2PM Thursday
 * Kacper: Room 204, 3:30PM Thursday
 * Madicken: Room 204, 4PM Friday
 
## Talks to Catch

### Wednesday

 * SatPy: Room 203, 10:30 AM
 * Pangeo: Room 203, 11:30 AM
 * Sparse *arrays*: Ballroom, 11:30 AM
 * "Future of Data Viz" BoF at 1PM in 204
 * Pangeo BoF at 1PM in 203
 * Research Library: Ballroom, 2:30 PM
 * ITK: Ballroom, 2:30 PM

### Thursday

 * Tracy Teal: Ballroom, 9:15 AM
 * "Website for Interacting with Oceanographic Data and Numerical Model Output": Room 203, 10:30 AM
 * Addressing Multithreading and Multiprocessing in Transparent and Pythonic Methods: Ballroom, 11 AM
 * EarthSim: Flexible Environmental Simulation Workflows Entirely Within Jupyter Notebooks: Room 203, 11:30 AM
 * Jupyter Notebook Driven Development with PYNT (PYthon iNTeractive): Room 204, 2:30 PM
 * Bringing ipywidgets Support to plotly.py: Room 203, 2:30 PM
 * Sneaking Data into Containers with the Whole Tale: Room 204, 3:30 PM
 * Spatio-temporal Analysis of Socioeconomic Neighborhoods: Room 203, 4:00 PM
 * Binder 2.0: The Next Generation of Reproducible Scientific Environments with repo2docker and BinderHub: Room 204, 4:30 PM
 
### Friday

 * Building Your Own Weather App: Room 203, 10:30AM
 * Building an Object-Oriented Python Interface for the Generic Mapping Tools: Room 203, 11:00AM
 * Development of MetPy’s Declarative Plotting Interface: Room 203, 11:30AM
 * Parsl: Enabling Scalable Interactive Computing in Python: Ballroom, 11:30AM
 * bqplot: Seamless Interactive Visualizations and Dashboards in the Jupyter Notebook: Room 204, 2:30PM
 * Interactive 3d Visualization in Jupyter: Room 204, 3:30PM
 * signac: A Python Framework for Data and Workflow Management: Room 203, 3:30PM
 * Interactive Data Visualization Leveraging Jupyter, Rust and WebAssembly: Room 204, 4:00PM
 * PyViz: Unifying Python Tools for In-Browser Data Visualization: Room 204, 4:30PM
 * Yaksh: Facilitating Learning by Doing: Ballroom, 4:30PM
 
## Notes on Talks

### Wednesday

 * Keynote: Ralf Gommers, "SciPy 1.0"
     * Ralf works in forestry!  I did not know that.
     * "SciPy: Fundamental Tools for Numeric Computing"
     * 16 submodules, which RG says have 5 subcategories.  1) Math building blocks. 2) Numerical algorithms. 3) Data structures. 4) Data analysis. 5) Utilities.
     * RG notes specifically the IO formats that scipy supports
     * Also notes the physical constants that are in scipy.
     * Related to hdf5: [pyfive](https://github.com/jjhelmus/pyfive)
     * SciPy has a governance structure, but it has not been riddled with conflicts.
     * RG has comments about the process of code of conducts, but I don't really get it.  Saying that you don't want to push people away with a CoC?  Even though it helps new people come in?  "Everyone who spoke up was happy"?!
     * 15 maintainers, but 16 modules.
     * He brings up Konrad Hinsen's [article](http://blog.khinsen.net/posts/2017/11/16/a-plea-for-stability-in-the-scipy-ecosystem/)
     * Some discussion of burnout.  Something to keep in mind for sure.
     * Oh!  There are cython bindings for scipy functions and special functions!  Wow!  [Docs here](https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/special.cython_special.html).  Also some `cython_blas` and `cython_lapack` bindings.
     * Makes a case for numba in scipy for ease of use.
     * Rotation matrices are being implemented via GSoC 2018. 
     * Sparse *arrays*
 * SatPy: David Hoese (pronounced 'Haze')
     * [Source code](https://github.com/pytroll/satpy)
     * Maintains SIFT and VisPy
     * Just released v0.9
     * Can use xarray and dask
     * Wrap common things in a few lines of code
     * Reading satellite data is annoying.  SatPy creates a "Scene" object.  Specify variations, etc.
     * (SatPy sounds like it came from a similar mindset as yt) - SatPy is yt for satellite data. It even has `satpy.load()` function
     * xarray and dask are used -- those two seem to be more popular than numpy in some of these packages.  Interestingly, the usage of dask is similar to yt's usage of data chunks.  (Continued diversion: Matt tried to make yt use dask but it was a bit tricky, although certainly possible with some work.)  The use case he describes for using dask are exactly what we implemented chunking and lazy reading in yt for.  (yt 3 has some overhead that can be gotten rid of that impedes this a bit.)
     * The modifiers for the images are *rad*.  Layer on corrections and modifiers to generate a picture of the globe.
     * Implements resampling in a pretty cool way.
     * Example workflow:

        ```
        from satpy import Scene
        scn = Scene(reader='abi_lib', filenames=[...])
        scn.load(['CO1', 'CO2', 'C08', 'true_color', 'air_mass', 'natural'])
        new_scn = scn.resample(resample = 'native')
        new_scn.save_datasets(base_dir='/tmp')
        ```

    * Stacked scenes are neat, as are the animations
    * Neat -- integrates with cartopy.  Makes a CRS object!
    * Ends with "contributions to satpy" video.  Very cool. (made with http://gource.io/)
 * Biochemistry of the Central Pacific Ocean:
     * Noelle Held and Jaclyn Saunders
     * "Metaproteomes and biogeochemistry of tropical pacific"
     * "Ocean Protein Portal"
     * WOW [this video](https://svs.gsfc.nasa.gov/30669) of photosynthetic activity of phytoplankton functional groups is amazing.  (Cites Mick Follows / MIT Darwin)
     * "ProteOMZ" is name of project.
     * Data: 11 stations, 8-16 depths per station, 60k proteins per depth.  That gives 6million data points + 6600 contextual data points (chemical and physical features)
     * Oxygen deficient zones showed via "depth" profile -- kind of neat because they use the y axis for the independent variable (since it's depth!) and the x axis for the dependent variable.
     * Viz platform [here](https://github.com/maksaito/proteOMZ_hydrography_visualization) and [here](https://github.com/maksaito/proteOMZ_visualization_app_public)
     * Looks like it uses bokeh and datashader?  The first app was standalone bokeh html, but the second uses bokeh server.
     * This talk is pretty awesome -- really concrete use cases for building platforms and whatnot.  Very much driven by questions, and using cutting edge stuff.  They do make a very good case that building these things puts you at the mercy of rapidly developing toolkits.
     * They also note holoviews in the thanks, as well as binder
     * They also note scope creep as a tricky thing to deal with in sustainability
 * Pangeo
     * "Community driven effort for big data in geosciences"
     * Joe Hamman, of NCAR.  Core dev of [xarray](http://xarray.pydata.org/en/stable/).  Founding member of Pangeo.
     * Observations to test models, models to test observations, etc.  Speaker suggests that progress is slowing as the data grows.
     * (I wonder if the data growth is going to shift as a result of changing national priorities.  Will we still take as much climate data?)
     * Pangeo is "a community working to develop software and infrastructure for big-data geoscience"
     * Broad mission, focusing on data from small to large.  Very, very expansive vision.
     * Geoscience packages slide shown; highlights dask, xarray and jupyter.
     * "Move computation to data" but mediated, I think, by Jupyter -- so usual type of moving computation to data?  Or maybe dask local controller that controls remote nodes?
     * Broad overview of xarray:
         * label-based indexing and arithmetic
         * interop with pandas, numpy, matplotlib
         * out-of-core thanks to dask
         * reads netcdf, hdf, geotiff, zarr
         * multi-d data manipulation like groupby and resampling
     * Uses dask too.
     * "More coming" for ND-array support, beyond dask and numpy
     * [`dask-jobqueue`](https://github.com/dask/dask-jobqueue) seems a bit like parsl? (I was going to say [`libsubmit`](https://github.com/Parsl/libsubmit) but yes ;-)
     * [pangeo.pydata.org](https://pangeo.pydata.org)
     * (Once again I have questions about the pydata subdomains)
     * Kubecluster has a neat widget, it looks like
     * The example is gridded ensemble of precipitation prediction
     * Demo had some glitches, but overall pretty cool
     * Current challenges are pretty interesting.  First set was sharing and storing data -- self-describing, etc, n-dimensional, etc.
     * There's also pangeo-data.org.  (Wait, so is pangeo.pydata.org different?)
     * [Pangeo organization](https://github.com/pangeo-data/)
 * Future of Viz in Python BoF:
     * Started out with the diagram from eScience of the viz landscape.
     * Being run by James Bednar of "pyviz"
     * Now he wants us to tell him if we want there to be a single thing in the future.
     * Maarten Braedels is now talking about traitlets.  (Is there really a big diaspora of UI/traitlets/etc things for the frontend?)
     * Ben Root makes the point that the matplotlib tools are becoming very good with cross-backend accessibility
     * [param](http://param.pyviz.org/) seems to be part of the "pyviz" suite.
     * There's an interesting argument about domain specific plotting relying on data structures
     * NG makes a good point about innovation outside of stability being necessary for evolution of the community
 * Scipy tools plenary
     * NumPy - snapshot for scipy 2018.  Some reuse of temporaries for things like `a+b+c`
     * Pandas - now adding an array extension for custom dtypes.  (Examples cited were GeoPandas and cyberpandas, which can store shapes/etc and IP addresses.)
     * Matplotlib - major improvements with 2.1 and 2.2: polar much better, constrained layout management, `datetime64`, cairo backends for GUI frameworks, string categoricals.  In 3.0, lots of docs, constrained layout, cyclic color maps, extended gridspec, contour(f) improved, and fully removed `hold`.
     * Jupyter - extension API being stabilized for jupyterlab.
 * [ITK](https://itk.org/) talk
     * Matt McCormack (of Kitware)
     * File formats, filtering algorithms, segmentation algorithms, etc
     * Connected components, watershed, levelsets (ND)
     * Registration framework helps with optimization and whatnot.
     * Really interesting jumping off point -- "where has ITK been in the scipy community?"
     * CableSWIG and GCC_XML make an appearance.  But, there was a heroic effort to improve the wrapping.
     * Cookiecutter for `ITKModuleTemplate`.  Has stuff for polar transforms, ultrasound, binarythinning, isotropicwavelets, etc.  Morphological contour identification (I think?) sounds neat.
     * `snake_case` is now available -- no more C++ naming conventions
     * NumPy bridge with no copies
     * [`itk-jupyter-widgets`](https://github.com/InsightSoftwareConsortium/itk-jupyter-widgets)
 * Practical Applications of Astropy
     * David Shupe (Caltech/IPAC)
     * Two applications on backend, rather than in interactive work.
     * Astropy is a community-driven project for core functionality, as well as an extended ecosystem of affiliated packages.
     * Relevant subpackages: io.fits, table, coordinates, wcs, units, ...
     * ZTF: Zwicky Transient Facility.
     * ZTF is a 3y survey for transient and variable sources. It's at Palomar.
     * 1TB of raw images per night, with a million alerts a night.
     * They difference the repeated images of the sky.  They'll do `new - ref` to make `sub` (-traction) images.
     * They're using the LSST alert mechanism!  Neat.
     * "Good astrometry is essential for the pipeline to function."  SExtractor, Scamp, SWarp software suite.  (Scamp is an astrometric solver.)
     * Offline fitting, match stars, calculate parameters.  This sounds incredibly intricate.
     * Wow -- interpolation of light-travel time allows calculation of heliocentric dates.  Lots of offset frame calculations, objects from julian dates and palomar, grid, fitting 2D polynomial surface.
     * Eliminate network calls, pre-fetching things like `EarthLocation.of_site`, use modified `SkyOffsetFrames` for 360->0 crossing issues.
     * Simulating spectra from the origins space telescope: potential launch in 2030's.  Infrared, space-based.  Built simulation tool for medium-res survey spectrometer, and see tradeoffs with aperture, distance, integration time, resolution.  Used [plotly dash](https://plot.ly/products/dash/) for this.
     * Astropy's units and constants keep track of conversions really well -- avoids magic numbers!
     * Can use assertions to verify that SNR are dimensionless for instance.
     * Mentions `unyt` (cites Nathan's paper) and says that astropy wants to talk to `yt` about it
     * Planck 2015 cosmology in astropy, and luminosity distance as a function of redshift is possible
     * `pysynphot` has utilities for reinterpolating spectra
     * Super cool movie of the plotly dash tool.  Really neat linked viewing and whatnot with `dash`.  (Talk tomorrow at 2:30 about plotly and widgets.)
     * astropy.cosmology is super useful for getting the redshifts right.
     * plotly dash + heroku is awesome.  (They pay $25/mo for it.)
     * ZTF alerts (PASP papers are close to submission)
     * Origins tool : origins.ipac and I missed the rest
 * cis interface
     * Meagan Lang
     * cis interface
     * CO2 acclimation.  Neat!
     * cropsinsilico.org and github.com/cropsinsilico/
 * Lightning talks
     * Visualizing ML learning decision boundaries.  Oliver Zeigermann.  [slides](http://bit.ly/scipy-ml-viz) and [poster](http://bit.ly/ml-viz-poster)
     * Maarten Braeddels: [vaex](http://vaex.io/) for out of core dataframes.  Emphasizes expressions (which sound like derived fields and seem to be expressed similarly to NG's `field_day` work) for memory-conservation.
     * Not sure the person's name, but from BC/BS of (I think) Tennessee.  Predictive modeling for health care.
     * Hannah (missed family name): Explaining classification with MNIST.
     * Nathan Goldbaum: Handle data with physical units in python.  Tracks dimensions as well as units.  Fast, small, easy.  https://github.com/yt-project/unyt
     * Matt Rocklin: Interactive supercomputing.  Tunnelling dask and jupyter.  (Ports 8888 and 8787)  Uses local machine to access them.
     * Not sure the person.  Maybe Dan something?  "Bootstrap a scientific python library."  [Docs are here](http://nsls-ii.github.io/scientific-python-cookiecutter/)
     * Gina Helfrich: Diversity in open source is worse than in tech in general.  Talking about the [NumFOCUS DISC program](https://www.numfocus.org/programs/diversity-inclusion) Women are more likely than men to encounter language that makes them uncomfortable.  DISC is working on a cookbook, unconference, post-event surveys, etc.  Looking into differences in self-identification, among other things.
     * Chris Holdgraf - textbooks with Jupyter and Jekyll.  [link](http://bit.ly/textbooks-with-jupyter-scipy)  Z2H is zero-to-hub, [accessible here](http://z2h.jupyter.org/)  Collection of custom templates, nbconvert, jekyll, etc.  Takes notebooks and puts them into markdown ready for Jekyll.  [example repo](https://github.com/choldgraf/textbooks-with-jupyter/)  It's [built here](http://predictablynoisy.com/textbooks-with-jupyter/)
     * Alex (?) - Divebomb, because animals go up and down.  Ocean tracking network tracks animals.
     
### Thursday

 * Tracy Teal: Democratizing Data
     * Wonder Woman who will FIX THINGS.  They know all of the domain.  They know the full stack.  They communicate.  They're the one, superhero rock star.
     * Really good talk.
 * Krysten Thyng: Website for Oceanographic Data
     * Oil spill response
     * Original site -- static map.  Fast, straight-froward, but difficult to access data, no model output, style is old.
     * Wow, new website is pretty rad.
     * Uses lots of flask, with a bit of php.
     * [okean](https://github.com/martalmeida/okean) is pretty neat.
     * Definitely need to look at okean!  The web interface to it is pretty neat as well.
     * [Website is live](http://pong.tamu.edu/tabswebsite/)
 * David Liu from Intel about Pythonic multiprocessing and multithreading
     * Trio (2017) is listed as a neat package for threading etc
 * EarthSim
     * [website](https://earthsim.pyviz.org/)
     * stack is pyviz + a few
     * aquaveo has a very good mesher for voronoi
     * Pretty cool demo of using holoviews and geoviews
     * Annotations are being added
     * Connects values to tables for annotations, etc
     * GrabCut algorithm for segmenting images based on foreground/background
     * Lots of neat bokeh and whatnot
     * ArcGIS-style workflow building
     * If I followed him correctly, bokeh is the plotting, holoviews is composition, geoviews is holoviews + coordinates
 * BoF on dashboarding
     * [ipywidgets_server](https://github.com/pbugnion/ipywidgets_server)
     * [flask-ipywidgets](https://github.com/maartenbreddels/flask-ipywidgets)
     * [plotly dash](https://dash.plot.ly/getting-started)
 * Scipy tools plenary
     * Numba: better error messages, `__cuda_array_interface__`, integrating with `CuPy`.  Better SVML SIMD vectorization of things like sin, cos, exp... Automatic SIMD vectorization, using `@jit(nopython=True, fastmath=True)` and `@jit(nopython=True, parallel=True)` for automatic multithreading, loop fusion, optimiations.  `numba.prange` and `@stencil` (for windowed functions).  HTML with `foo.inspect_types(pretty=True)`  Can put a python mode block inside nopython mode function.  Diagnostics.  
     * XTensor: N-D tensor algebra in C++.  (NumPy for C++) and can be accessed inside NumPy, R, Julia.  Binds to FFTW, IO, etc.  [xtensor.readthedocs.io](http://xtensor.readthedocs.io/) has a cheat sheet for moving from numpy.  FAST and uses lazy evaluation with templates for unrolling most loops and preventing allocation.  xframe is coming, which has data model similar to pandas/xarray.  expression system, lazily evaluated.
     * SymPy: 7 GSoCs!  SymPy 1.2 can parse (experimentally) LaTeX.  Experimental support for derivatives of matrix expressions with respect to matrices.  vector module supports orthogonal curvilinear coordinate systems. Code generation improvements.
     * Scikit-image: some pretty cool improvements!  LTS.  Long-term roadmap includes N-d support, metadata, array axes vs geometrical xy.  (Might be worthwhile thinking about how this could related to yt.)
     * yt: lots of unique, bespoke output formats in astro.  Two GSoC students!  RAMSES frontend improvement.  
     * vispy: It's alive!  Version 0.5 out back in october, and 0.6 soon.  Next will have texture-based colormaps.
     * PyViz: lots of updates.  Some network stuff and gridding and whatnot.
 * PYNT
     * [PYNT](https://github.com/ebanner/pynt) stands for "python interactive"
     * Plugin for the emacs ipython notebook.
     * Pretty cool, but not sure how I could use this unless I'm in emacs.
     * Heh, "pynt makes it *really* easy to write bad code."
     * (I didn't know about emacs mirror mode.  Neat.)
 * Whole Tale
     * Kacper Kowalik.  [whole-tale](https://wholetale.org/) and [ghrepo](https://github.com/whole-tale/).
     * Research scientist at NCSA at UIUC.  Going to talk about Whole Tale and sneaking data into containers with FUSE.
     * Reproducible research!  Publishers and researchers.  Presenting this as one bundle can be tricky -- attaching small data is easy, but terabytes or gigabytes of data make it more difficult.
     * DOIs included.
     * BinderHub is related, but not quite the same.  Also mentioned [SWAN](https://swan.web.cern.ch).
     * Builds on existing cyberinfrastructure and tools.  For instance, girder, celery, wsgidav, pymongo, fusepy, traefik, redis, docker, terraform, emberjs.
     * Using jetstream, which is an XSEDE resource.
     * Distinguish between working and involatile data
     * Only needs size, location, name to ingest a file.  This gets remote data in.
     * Can create file and folder structure objects on top of the database records in MongoDB
     * FUSE: Filesystem in User Space.  Define what happens when you read/open/link.  Very nice wrapper fusepy, and pyfilesystem2.
     * Introducing the FUSE filesystem enables you to pull data down much more easily.
     * FUSE filesystem is created as the user that creates the mount point; this then is stored, and privs are kept appropriate.
     * Outlook: if you're interested, visit the main webpage.  There's a roadmap with releases.  Prototype UI.
     * Can stick in URLs, data providers (DOIs) etc.
     * Can mount filesystems remotely, etc etc.  Data synced!
     * Kacper got applause, and I didn't even initiate it!
 * Lightning talks
     * OpenML.org -- Machine learning, better together.  Can get stuff easily and run -- `openml.get_task(...)`.
     * Didn't catch name :( but works with EMBL. Local bioinformatics community, challenges and efforts.  At which organizational level can we support groups?  Research, region, national, international?  Really useful ideas about promoting interaction, etc.  Definitely worth watching and studying in detail.
     * Matias B: backport PR stuff for matplotlib!  Neat.  Bot-based. You can @ it in a PR.  https://github.com/MeeseeksBox/MeeseeksDev
     * Pandas for everyone giveaway.  Book repo [here](https://github.com/chendaniely/pandas_for_everyone).
     * Dynamic optimization and machine learning using `mystic` by Mike McKerns.  Constraints transform and reduce search space.  Penalty functions, constraint functions, optimizations, etc.  Complex non-linear optimization and ML.
     * Freja Descamps from Clover: Academia to Industry.  The "talk I wish I'd heard."  Five thoughts:
         * Explore the space: where are you going?
         * Recruit mentors: start networking NOW!
         * Identify skill gap: what do you need to learn?
         * Invest time in projects and communicate about them.
         * Organize your brain and time
     * Fly Hemi-Brain connectome project.  Janelia flyEM.  Volume Imaging.  Bill Katz.  Really neat volume viz.  They do automatic synapse detection using DL.  Predicted synapse point clouds, for instance.  [Flood-filling](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.00421) deep recurrent networks.  This seems really cool.  Very computationally expensive.  DIVD is what they built.  "Git for massive image-oriented data."  https://github.com/janelia-flyem/dvid  Neuroglancer is part of this it seems.
     * Reclamation: managing water in the west.  (Zachary Leady)  Seasonal wetland delineation.
     * PySAL and splot: Lightweight plotting for geospatial analysis in pysal.  `from splot.libpysal import plot_spatial_weights ; weights=libpysal.Queen.from_dataframe()gdf); plot_spatial_weights(weights, gdf); plt.show()`.  Seems very cool. Lots of neat things it can do, like rose plots, too.  Has composite plots.  Also, [PySAL](https://github.com/pysal/libpysal) is neat.
     * [Verde](https://github.com/fatiando/verde): processing and gridding spatial data using Green's functions.  This is pretty cool.  Can do neat grid spacing, and it gives you back xarray gridded data.  Can chain operations.  Handles geographic coordinates, too, for instance.  And you can grid vector data with different curvatures.  Couples interpolation of different vector components, for instance with elastic medium, etc.
     * Anthony Suan - Data Science education infrastructure across US & Canada.  At UC Berkeley they have a reasonably large support team, but not huge, but they support huge number of students.  Bid Data Innovation Hubs make an appearance.  MBDH included in their pilot.
     * Exo: rocket simulations, I think.  Seems pretty cool -- monte carlo runs for where rockets will fall.
     * Kimberly Orr: Building a matplotlib renderer for Altair.  John Hunter MPL Summer Fellow.  Altair is declarative statistical viz library.  Really nice for quick, exploratory viz.  By design, the API is limited compared to MPL, Bokeh, etc.  Early sneak peak is that you can convert from Altair to matplotlib, then do stuff on it like in matplotlib!  [mpl-altair](https://github.com/matplotlib/mpl-altair) extension.
     * Toy Models, Jasmine Otto.  Explorable scientific methods.  Small data: abhor redundant items.  Salient examples are at the boundary of some parameter or feature.  (From [Creative Coding Lab at UCSC](https://creativecoding.soe.ucsc.edu/news.php))  Also, the Creative Coding Lab seems really really awesome.  What is p5.js?
     
### Friday

 * LIGO, Leo P. Singer
     * NCSA VIDEO!!!!
     * PopIII question from Julie!
 * Building your own Weather App
     * `whoami` is a pretty funny way to start a talk!  Filipe Fernandes.
     * [IOOS](https://ioos.noaa.gov/)
     * [Data catalog](https://data.ioos.us/) (including model output)
     * ERRDAP is something new that is emerging as a community standard
     * CF model ...
     * Bounding box using ERRDAP.  Get stuff like temperature, etc, and get trajectory profiles, etc etc.  Lots of really neat queries.
     * `owslib.cscw.CatalogueServiceWeb` and filtering with `owslib.fes`
     * Hurricane code!  Very cool.
     * [Talk slides](https://ocefpaf.github.com/2018-SciPy-talk)
 * Object-Oriented Python Interface for Generic Mapping Tools
     * Leonardo Uieda
     * Want GMT to be accessible for new users.  Python wrapper that looks like Python.  Integrate within scipy stack.  Document it comprehensively.
     * Really cool map projections, coastlines, etc.
     * The usage of `ctypes` is really neat.  I did not know about `@ctp.CFUNCTYPE`!
     * [gmtpython.xyz](https://gmtpython.xyz)
 * Parsl
     * Kyle Chard.  [parsl-project.org](https://parsl-project.org)
     * Parsl's great.  Definitely worth exploring.
 * Plenary
     * Girder: update from Matt McC. Lots of intro!  Cool stuff with slicer, etc.  HistomicscTK is called out.  Girder worker analytics.  Near term: deeper integration with JupyterLab.  Metadata querying.  Cohort construction to feed analytics.  Better provenance.  Further ahead: research algorithm development.  Interactive browsing, with client+server stuff.  [talk slides](https://bit.ly/scipy2018-girder-talk)
     * PyMC3
     * Dask: interfaces like arrays, dataframes, delayed/futures are better, as is xarray.  Machine learning getting better.  dask-image not much changed.  Big focus on deployment last couple years.
     * xarray: `apply_ufunc` is new.  multi-dimensional vectorized indexing and interpolation.  What's next: duck arrays in xarray.  [NEP-18](http://www.numpy.org/neps/nep-0018-array-function-protocol.html) is where this is coming from.
     * cartopy: adopted by satpy, geoviews, for instance.  they note that core development group is not super enormous.  Iris: N-dimensional data and metadata.  Iris is a good place to look for CF-compliant data. cf-units
     * astropy: affiliated packages ([APE 15](https://github.com/astropy/astropy-APEs/blob/master/APE15.rst))  Looks like `spherical_geometry` is a neat new-ish package for astropy
     * Quest ERDC: includes a hydroshare implementation/deployment.  Ulmo also exists.  github.com/erdc/quest
     * Altair: demo was run on colab by google
 * bqplot:
     * bqplot remains awesome, and I love using it
     * In next release will support (something) I couldn't hear but it sounded good
     * The drawing stuff is pretty cool.  Looks like it's as hard as before though. :)
     * As, "big data" comes up.  Next version has "mega marks."  (This was a big pain point in my class this last semester when using bqplot!)  Looks like it's much better at 1e6 points or so.
     * "Beyond millions of points" he cites Vaex
     * [xeus](https://github.com/QuantStack/xeus) is a c++ implementation of the jupyter kernel protocol.  Not a kernel itself, but a way to make new kernels.  Now they have widgets defined in C++.
 * Interactive 3D Visualization in Jupyter
     * Maarten Braeddels.  Agenda: history, demo, demo, demo, demo
     * Scatter plots up to 1,000,000 points.
     * It's really good.
     * isosurfaces computed by skimage
     * dynamic resampling of, say, cubes during zoomin zoomout
     * unray: https://github.com/vidartf/unray (unstructured mesh)
 * Madicken Munk on Rust, Jupyter, wasm, etc
     * Shout outs to Kacper, Nathan and Meagan!  Yay!
     * interactive viz!  on the fly tuning of parameters, etc.
     * the live demo is cool.  and, really nice comments about jupyter.
     * very nice description of the image pixelization process
     * Pushing data to the client makes sense as long as $T_{client} < T_{server}$
     * Push lots more to the browser!
     * `wasm_bindgen`
     * emojis come with `wasm-pack`!
 * PyViz
     * James Bednar
     * `hvplot` is neat -- `import hvplot.pandas ; some_df.hvplot()`
     * "holoviews objects are not plots"
     * interesting indexing and groupby stuff with hvplot
     * `hvplot('Year', groupby='State', width=500, dynamic=False)`
 * Lightning talks
     * Elegant Scipy is a pretty rad-looking book.  [elegant-scipy.org](https://elegant-scipy.org/)
     * Gordon Chen of Oracle - model performance measurement in estimating probabilities
     * Anthony Scopatz -- roadmaps!  This is a community driven effort.  He wants to help projects connect, develop roadmaps, etc.
     * Clare Slogget -- micropython board, sensing blood sugar, transmitting to phone via bluetooth, sending to cloud, retrieving.  "Super easy" once connected to wifi.  [NightScout](http://www.nightscout.info/) is useful for this.  Wow, super cool PCA plotly dash etc etc.  tSNE interactive.
     * Mark, or "DataPythonista".  Opinion about importing things!  Unicode!  All available identifiers [are online](https://www.dcl.hpi.uni-potsdam.de/home/loewis/table-3131.html)
     * Time dates by Alex Samuel -- [info here](http://bit.ly/2NJSk39).  Name is ora.  Types, date, time of day, widths, resolutions, ranges, missing and invalid values.
     * R@Sea - a carpentry inspired workshop for immersive learning *on* and *under* the water.  Really cool teaching at sea!  Pair programming, green stickies, etc.  Also, learning both statistics and coding adds cognitive overload.  So tried out fill-in-the-blanks code templates. [getintothefield](https://www.getintothefield.com/)
     * Kyle Niemeyer talking about [JOSE](https://github.com/openjournals/jose), sibling to [JOSS](https://joss.theoj.org/)
     
     
## Other Notes

 * Arrow
 * [plotly widgets](https://medium.com/@plotlygraphs/introducing-plotly-py-3-0-0-7bb1333f69c6)
 * libpysal, contextily, mapclassify
